---
title: Instant gratification
---
Every decision in life is a bet.  Sometimes the stakes are low ("the cafe has run out of egg tarts so I have to pick some other snack"), and maybe the result is more of a long-term deal ("OK, twenty years in, this was not the best career choice"), but each time you're staking a claim on a future outcome.

Credit is a particular kind of bet.  You don't have all of the money on-hand to purchase some asset, so you convince someone to let you have the money now and you promise to pay them back later.  When you do that: 

*   **The future outcome is "you repaying the loan."**  You are therefore betting on _yourself,_ going long on your prospects for revenue or income throughout the repayment period.
    
*   **You are also betting on the asset providing some value or payoff.**  You get to use it (live in the house you've mortgaged) and/or you can later sell it as its price increases (say, you bought tons of shares of stock to increase your return on that hot tip).
    
*   **You want that payoff to hit before the loan is due to be repaid.**  If your loan is for six months, and your hot stock tip takes nine months to come to fruition, you're going to have a rough time.
    

That's the framing we held in mind while learning about [Teller, a service for lending people money to buy NFTs](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-07-08/buy-now-pay-later-for-nfts-bored-ape-yacht-club-buyers-can-now-use-bnpl).  Specifically, [Teller's Ape, Now Pay Later](https://apenowpaylater.com/) pairs potential buyers with lenders, and it holds the NFT in escrow until it's paid off.   (The name is a play on Buy Now, Pay Later – also known as BNPL – [a popular twist on layaway that has attracted the interest of financial regulators](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/12/21/cfpb-inquiry-buy-now-pay-later-products/).)

On the one hand, it may seem weird to take out a loan for "just an ape JPEG." On the other hand, an asset is an asset is an asset.  Whether it's a car, house, or even a company ("leveraged buyout," anyone?), you can use credit to get the asset now and pay it off over time.  

What remains to be seen is whether you can access the financed NFT while it is still in escrow. In the same way that you'd want to live in a house while you're still paying the mortgage, you'd probably want to have access to your utility-style NFTs – the kind that come with recurring benefits, such as membership passes – sooner rather than later.