---
title: Things Go Wrong™
---
In California, a [group of plaintiffs has filed a lawsuit against the decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) bZx](https://blockworks.co/hacked-dao-faces-lawsuit-as-users-try-to-recoup-stolen-funds/), claiming that the DeFi platform is responsible for a hack in which they lost about $1.5 million in crypto.  (This is a portion of a total $55 million lost in that hack.) 

How will this turn out?  It's hard to say.  Crypto is in weird legal territory. There aren't a lot of rules around it, and it hasn't really been tested in court.  As one of your Block & Mortar editors often points out: _you never want to be a case law pioneer_.  You really, _really_ want there to be historical precedent on which you can set your expectations, and on which a judge can base their ruling.  Absent that, a lawsuit can be a real nail-biter.  (And extremely expensive, even if you win.)

We consulted with our crypto law expert and learned about a couple of things working against bZx here.  Traditionally, people do work under the form of a corporation or partnership to limit their individual liability.  That's why the "LL" in "LLC" stands for "limited liability." Without that protection it is possible that a DAO could be considered an "unincorporated association" and every member of the DAO can be individually liable for the DAO's debts.

What will be DAOs' path to corporation-like limited-liability protections? What will be the tradeoffs to get there? And what impact will those protections have on the pseudonymity so common in web3?  Keep an eye on the state of Wyoming.  They [passed a law that lays some important groundwork](https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/crypto-daos-and-the-wyoming-frontier-9251606/):

> _On July 1, 2021, Wyoming’s Decentralized Autonomous Organization (“DAO”) law (Wy. Stat. § 17-31-101 through 17-31-115) became effective. This makes Wyoming the first U.S. state to clarify the legal status of, and legally recognize as a separate entity, a decentralized autonomous organization and its members, and it helps lay the foundation for this growing sector to provide a formal legal entity structure for those participating in unincorporated groups whose governance is generally coded into smart contracts._