---
title: These trading cards won't get lost in a move
---
Collectors have long bought and sold sports cards – hence the name "trading" cards –  and a card's price can fluctuate over time based on the athlete's activities.  

It's no surprise, then, that trading cards have taken on a new form as NFTs.  The digital cards certainly keep better than their paper equivalents.  And trading on a blockchain-based system is a natural fit.   (We'll spare you a lecture on marketplace design.  Just know that online markets make it easier for buyers and sellers to meet.  And the transparency from keeping prices and transactions in the public eye further improves the experience.  Blockchain is perfect for trading collectibles in this fashion.)

Going digital also lets collectors move beyond still images.  [NBA TopShot](https://nbatopshot.com/), for example, mints NFTs of video clips.  And this week, the partnership between Draftkings and Metabilia offers [some special perks for people who buy the rookie players' NFTs](https://blockworks.co/draftkings-continues-nft-push-via-deal-with-metabilia/):

> _Called NFT Membership collectibles, owners will be rewarded with various event-based NFTs throughout the season, which will correspond to milestones or accomplishments for the respective athletes._

Taking a slightly different approach, Under Armour has paired up with Steph Curry to [issue NFTs every time he scores a three-pointer](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/linked/145532/under-armour-to-mint-nba-warriors-stephen-curry-inspired-nfts).  Any chance that'll clog the network like the Otherdeeds minting did?

Jokes aside, we look forward to seeing what comes next as digital goods open new doors for collectibles.