---
title: "Yes, and …"
---


Last week I'd prepped, and then cut, a newsletter segment on how [the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) had scrapped a big blockchain project](https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/17/australian-securities-exchange-cancels-blockchain-based-clearing-system-at-168m-cost/). A couple of days later some friends sent me a link to [Tim Bray's blog post on the same topic](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/202x/2022/11/19/AWS-Blockchain).

It's a great writeup and I'd encourage you to read it in full. As a preview: Bray used to work in Amazon's cloud computing division (AWS). He'd been running all over hell's half-acre, on a mission from his boss to uncover blockchain use cases. At least for the clients he met, there wasn't much to report.

Years later, Bray still doesn't see much.

I can empathize. Much of my work these days is in the realm of machine learning and artificial intelligence (ML/AI). I, as well as many of my colleagues in this space, can tell a version of Bray's story:

1.  A company reaches out because they want to do something with AI. (Great. I'm all ears.)
    
2.  They haven't really sorted out what, in particular, AI will do for them. (Also great. The fun part of my job involves explaining AI to people and helping them uncover use cases. Count me in.)
    
3.  Annnnnd they have already made up their mind that they will *definitely* use AI. (Hmmm.)
    

That last step is where so many companies get into trouble. The minute you have decided to use the ill-defined thing, you have committed yourself to The Unknown. That way lies tears. Tears and smoldering stacks of money.

(Want to see something funny? Find someone who worked in the data science space, say, 2011 to 2015. Whisper "Hadoop" in their ear. Trust me.)

So, yes, I generally agree with Bray's blog post.

Yes, *and* …

… and that's the thing with emerging tech:

1.  ***There's always a use case***. It's rarely as big as the die-hard fans say it will be, and it doesn't always take the exact shape the true believers expect. But every technology fits *somewhere*.
    
2.  ***There's always hype***. Hype is a fog that obscures the truly valuable use cases. Hype makes it easier for companies to hang their hopes on this new, amorphous silver bullet. Since no one can articulate what the thing actually does, that means it can do anything.
    

Use cases and hype. It's a package deal.

And this is why working in tech can be difficult. It requires you to be two people at once:

-   One person to stay grounded, such that the company doesn't follow some vendor off into the woods.
    
-   Another person to keep an eye out for The Possible. They will view the world through the lens of The New Thing, and see what crops up.
    

My hope is that you don't walk away from Bray's post thinking that blockchain has zero value. (He even says, "I’m not prepared to say that no blockchain-based system will ever be useful for anything.")

What will be blockchain's winner use cases, then? I expect they will be based on the idea of *distributed trust:* cases when multiple parties need to verify the same data, but can't (or won't) rely on one party to run the central data store. Think "[supply chain](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/well-that-escalated-quickly#making-that-paper-trail-digital)" or "[the energy sector](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/scams-energy-mortgages-and-chicken#blockchain-for-the-energy-sector)" or maybe even "airline loyalty programs that need to track passenger activity across code-share flights." Whether these pan out remains to be seen. But at least the core needs overlap with what blockchain provides.

The take-away lesson: the sin is not in adopting the new technology. The sin is assuming that it will be useful before you've done any homework.
