---
title: "The origins of Odyssey: Adam Brotman interview on Empire"
---


Thanks to my years of [work in the ML/AI space](https://qethanm.cc/consulting/), I've become rather adept at spotting Corporate FOMO™ in action. The usual tip-off is when I see a company roll out a lot of The Fancy New Thing with no clear purpose behind it, followed by the company desperately spray-painting We're Doing The Fancy New Thing over their services and products.  

So [when I first read about Odyssey (newsletter #22)](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/of-loyalty-and-leadership-titles#a-web3-coffee-odyssey), the web3 evolution of the Starbucks loyalty program, it struck me as the exact opposite of Corporate FOMO™.  Odyssey's design is thoughtful, deliberate, and strategic – everything from choosing a (relatively) environmentally-friendly blockchain, to shielding customers from the underlying technology, to really injecting the Starbucks _brand_ into the product.  It hit me that Odyssey wasn't so much a _blockchain_ project, but a _Starbucks_ project.

Odyssey started with Adam Brotman, who had created the original Starbucks Rewards program.  This [interview with Brotman on the Empire podcast](https://blockworks.co/podcast/empire/eb20eaf6-77ab-11ed-9e4c-bf6df731d139) traces his journey from his original efforts on Rewards, to a web3 startup, then back to Starbucks to build on the power of NFTs.

(If you're short on time: The full episode runs about an hour, but the interview with Brotman is the first 25 minutes.  This is definitely short enough to fit into a quick walk or bike ride.)

No spoilers here.  I'll just highlight that while Brotman came to this adventure with plenty of executive-level experience in marketing and loyalty, he was new to web3.  He took the time to research blockchain and NFTs, seeing them through the lens of his professional background, in order to surface use cases for this new technology.  And that's how he came to understand the power of NFTs: _Loyalty – Community – Storytelling – Access pass_.

If you're curious about Brotman's story, I'd encourage you to take a listen. There are some great thoughts in there.

If you're sorting out how web3 fits into your business model, listen twice.  Follow Brotman's path of studying up on web3 – perhaps [your favorite weekly newsletter](https://BlockAndMortar.xyz/newsletter) is the place to start? – and develop some use cases. 

And you plan to integrate NFTs into your loyalty program, do yourself a favor and put this on repeat. Play it for your team.  Make "_Loyalty – Community – Storytelling – Access pass_" your mantra.

You can thank me later.
