---
title: "This is my membership card.  There are many like it.  But this one is mine."
---


Related to the previous segment, web3 infrastructure company Moonpay – you may remember them from the [Universal Studios scavenger hunt](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/of-loyalty-and-leadership-titles#web3-also-works-for-in-person-experiences), or their work on crypto payment rails – is [rolling out a new NFT-based loyalty program](https://www.theblock.co/post/191213/moonpay-to-roll-out-soulbound-nft-loyalty-program?):


> _Dubbed the "Web3 Passport," the [NFT] will grant its owner access to exclusive events, the firm is set to announce at Art Basel in Miami. The benefits of this program would be related to ticketing for fashion, art, sports, music and entertainment, and rolled out early next year._

The interesting thing about Passport is that it implements _soulbound tokens_, which are NFTs that cannot be transferred. As described in [newsletter #5](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/money-in-money-out-and-a-little-hollyweb3#this-tokens-not-for-trading):


> _NFTs mostly have a reputation as assets to be traded for profit. Maybe you grab something for a quick flip opportunity, or you try a slower, buy-and-hold approach._
>
> _What does it mean for a token to instead be treated as an indicator of achievement or status, or something else that is meant to be tied to an entity?  Something that can't be traded?  Using crypto tokens for certificates is not new but a recent paper,  "Decentralized Society: Finding Web3's Soul,"  takes a deeper look into soulbound tokens (SBTs) and their use in decentralized society (DeSoc)._

Passport's use of SBTs raises some interesting questions around the idea of assignment versus ownership. SBTs make sense for credentials that are _assigned_, because they are a proxy for an individual.  Think ID cards or diplomas.  Compare that to assets, which are acquired through trade or development.  A person who purchases or creates  artwork would likely want the option to sell it down the road.  (And they may acquire the asset with the express purpose of selling it.)

Membership in a loyalty program? That sits somewhere in-between.  That membership card identifies someone as being part of a group, yes.  It also represents status and perks that the person has developed through, say, flying some number of miles or buying a lot of chicken sandwiches.

John Smith is a specific individual. An ID card with that name on it had best be in the hands of John Smith. 

Super Mega Platinum Member Status is an attribute.  And a fungible one, at that.  

Digital ownership is a pillar of web3.  By bundling the record of the individual with the attribute, NFT-based loyalty programs will likely encounter frictions if they forbid the account-holder from expressing that ownership through sale.  [As I mentioned in newsletter #23](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/the-other-side-of-web3-loyalty-programs-and-making-web3-disappear#whose-status-is-it-anyway):


> _The idea of customers selling loyalty status is an uncomfortable question for many companies, because they are accustomed to holding all of the proverbial cards.  It will be tempting to simply declare status as non-transferable.  But that runs contrary to the idea of digital ownership that is core to web3._
>
> _[...]_
>
> _Blockchain technology allows marketplaces to spring up anywhere, and for anything.  If an item is on-chain it's best to assume that people will want to trade it. The best companies will account for this when designing their web3-based loyalty programs, and they'll develop rules that allow for transfer of status while keeping things fair for everyone involved.  They'll also develop loyalty perks that people will be less eager to sell.  In other words, these companies skip over the Napster moment of suing fans, and go straight to the iTunes era of providing an official framework for what customers want._

Consider, interestingly enough, the Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) collection.  These NFTs are items that may be bought and sold, making them tradable assets.  Buying a BAYC NFT also grants you membership and perks.  Membership? You become part of the BAYC community – the bragging rights of getting to say that you have something in common with [Snoop Dogg and Eminem](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/digital-escapism-case-law-pioneers-and-cant-be-evil-nft-licenses#metaverse-properties-as-digital-escapism).  Perks? You get access to events and other NFT projects which require proof of BAYC ownership. Say what you will about "those silly ape JPEGs," but buying thatNFT grants you a lot more than just an image.

(Hopefully you never join the _other_ community, People Whose BAYC NFTs Have Been Stolen.  Membership there is higher than anyone would like.)

Could you argue that owning a BAYC NFT counts as "membership in a loyalty program?"  That depends.  If your definition of a loyalty program requires a connection to a specific business entity, probably not.  But if you're still chanting _"Loyalty – Community – Storytelling – Access pass"_ from the previous segment then … You see where this is going.

As far as I know, Moonpay's Passport is the first loyalty program to use soulbound NFTs.  I'll keep an eye on it to see how that implementation detail plays out.
