---
title: "How do you do, fellow kids?"
---


In another example of The Headline Is The Story, [Business Insider recently published a piece entitled: "The EU hosted a 24-hour party in its $400,000 metaverse to appeal to young people, but pretty much no one showed up."](https://www.businessinsider.com/eu-hosts-400000-metaverse-party-barely-anyone-shows-up-2022-12)

I'll get to that shortly. But first I'd like to address all the aspiring writers out there. Please recognize that _this is how you write a headline_.  This is not clickbait.  It didn't get my attention through the cheap ploy of leaving out a key piece of information only to disappoint me later.  No, no, no.  This headline _put the key information right there,_ as though to say: "Come on in!  There's even more to see."  And there was more.  So much more. 

(Also, can we take a moment to appreciate that EUR/USD exchange rate?  When $400k is €387, it's time to travel. Just sayin'.)

Insider's source piece, [a Devex article by Vince Chadwick](https://www.devex.com/news/eu-aid-dept-s-387k-metaverse-meets-real-world-critique-104335), offered additional detail:


> _According to the spokesperson, the promotional post’s purpose is “to intrigue [people aged 18-35], primarily on TikTok and Instagram, and to encourage them to engage with the broader substance of the campaign, which will increase awareness of what the EU does on the world stage among an audience that is not typically exposed to such information.”_

Maybe I did too many word problems in math class? I feel like the answer was right there in the question.  If you already know that your target audience hangs out on TikTok and Instagram you could …  y'know … connect with them on TikTok and Instagram?  Seems cheaper than building out a big metaverse gathering.

It gets worse:


> _Once logged on, users adopt an avatar resembling a multicolored paperclip_

I'm sorry to stop in mid-quote, but … [What?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Assistant)


> _and roam around a surreal tropical island. Stories about EU development cooperation are playing on video screens in various locations. There is a 24-hour beach party pumping four-on-the-floor beats while presumably computer-generated figures dance on elevated platforms. A giant red statue prepares to hurl what looks like a coronavirus molecule._

Did I pick up a copy of _The Onion_ by mistake?


> _Dolphins jump through the air. Drones hover, carrying multiple screens flashing words such as “education” and “public health.” There is an open book art installation on a liquid floor as a “symbol of the human journey towards knowledge”. You can walk on water._

I have … so many questions.  But I can't get to them because I'm trying to wrap my head around [the EU's response to Chadwick's piece](https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-defends-party-in-e387k-metaverse/):


> _The EU’s executive disputed that claim Friday, telling Devex that around 300 visitors attended the event, which featured avatars dancing to house music. The Commission said it had confirmed the numbers with the site’s developers Journee._

Dear readers: I'm just a guy who likes emerging tech.  I spend my evenings and weekends telling people _"that's how web3 works"_ to balance out my day job of telling people _"that's not how AI works."_ I hardly feel qualified to explain to a governmental body how to manage their comms strategy.

But I do know math.  And how to price out a technology spend.  So I can see that 300 participants comes to €1.3k per person.  Much better than five participants at a whopping €77k each, but … still ... not very good.
