---
title: It's all just a game (in the textbook sense of the word)
---
Let's talk about three closely-related terms:

*   A _game_ is an activity built on rules and goals.  And maybe progression, too.
    
*   _Gamification_ structures everyday tasks in a game-like fashion.  Despite the name, it doesn't necessarily involve leisurely distraction. 
    
*   _Gaming the system_ means that you derive benefit by playing a different game than the one intended.  (Often by exploiting loopholes or inconsistencies in the game's design.) 
    

Done well, gamification can improve task completion rates, even if participants are only "playing against" their past selves.  Progress bars and animations can be strong motivators. No wonder it's been a core of language-learning tools, habit-trackers, and fitness apps.

Gamification also has its flaws.  Devious players will no doubt find ways to game the system, which can annoy the honest participants.  Devious app builders can construct ~~handheld casinos~~ subtle traps  in order to exploit players.  And then there's the ultimate sin of poor game design, which leads people – honest and otherwise – to lose interest.

By this point you're probably asking: _how is any of this relevant to Block & Mortar's usual topic of "web3 use cases?"_  And the answer is: _play-to-earn (P2E)._

P2E is a web3 flavor of gamification in which people are rewarded in cryptocurrency tokens. It sometimes gets a bad rap just because of its general association with crypto.  (Feel free to skim our archives for the "Things Go Wrong™" topic if you haven't seen much on crypto's dark side.) P2E also suffers from the way games – the kind that can translate to real-money payouts – can quickly devolve into [a mix of work and speculative ventures that teeter on collapse](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/02/08/axie-infinity-reduces-slp-emissions-to-prevent-collapse/). 

But everything has its place. In the same way language-learning apps have honed their gamification, P2E mechanics can help with civic involvement. Consider [a little something happening in Japan](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/1577576345600593920), as noted on Twitter by @wrathofgnon:

> _Japanese NGO makes a game of citizen collected infrastructure damage reports: “Guardians of Steel and Concrete”. The first task was called “Manhole Crusade”. By locating and taking photos of manholes players earn tokens. These tokens will eventually be redeemable in real life._
> 
> _Gamers are asked to rate the manhole cover by quality and the reports are sent to city engineers for maintenance. When tested in the Tokyo ward Shibuya the 10,500 manholes were documented in 3 days. It would have taken many years for city engineers to complete the same task._

The NGO, called Whole Earth Foundation, offers more details on [their website](https://www.wholeearthfoundation.org/).

From what we see, Manhole Crusade strikes the right balance between "find work that is reasonable for people to do," "structure it as a simple task," and "compensate people for their effort." 

(If you squint just right, P2E sounds very much like a loyalty program. Both reward people for completing specific tasks in a certain way.  And while neither one _requires_ building on blockchain technology, doing so simplifies some of the underlying marketplace mechanics.  But we promised that we're taking a break from loyalty programs this week so we'll leave it at that.)

We expect P2E to become a common app design pattern, right up there with "swipe left or right to express a view."  How will you use it for your projects and customer interactions?  Do you have lightweight tasks that you can farm out through a mobile app, and reward participants with crypto tokens?  And when the time comes to convert those tokens into real-world items or fiat currency, how will you stay within your (and your participants') local laws?

All of those questions roll up into one meta-question, which is: at what point will you need to involve an economist and a game designer in your web3 efforts?

And the answer is: pretty early.

Just trust us on this one.