---
title: Depends what you mean by “place”
---
A few weeks back we [shared our view on visiting metaverse properties](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/digital-escapism-case-law-pioneers-and-cant-be-evil-nft-licenses#metaverse-properties-as-digital-escapism):

> _The point of being in a metaverse is digital escapism. Doing so allows you to be someone else, somewhere else. To play a role. To don a costume and parade around a virtual world with your old friends, and maybe make some new ones._ 
> 
> _At the risk of getting too philosophical on a Tuesday morning, this is about redefining "reality."_

What we said about escapism still stands. (We'll come back to that in a moment.)  We'd now like to extend our statement on redefining "reality."  The more we think about it, there's a good question in there about the definition of "place."

If you're of a certain age – like, say, a couple of guys with two decades' experience in the tech sector – you've probably (mis)spent time in group chat systems like IRC, or BBSs, or something similar.  You may have even held deep discussions on async communications systems like Usenet.  And maybe, as a result, you easily see the appeal of spending time in a metaverse property.  (Even if none of the current implementations strike your fancy.)  You notice the shift from typing to speaking, and from witty usernames to static images to fully-animated avatars, but the core element is the same: people are interacting, people are sharing an experience. And the sense of "place" is defined not so much by geography, but by who is present and when.

The shared experience can take the form of participating in events, as in Roblox or Fortnite.  Or ~~interacting with brands~~ shopping, in The Sandbox.  It can also be an extension of a corporate workplace, either for training (great use case here) or for recreating the in-office environment  (because 2D video calls apparently weren't good enough).  

All of this means that "plain old hanging out" is also on the menu.  And now ~~Facebook's Meta's~~ Facebook's Horizon Worlds (HW) – despite its very corporate-themed debut, which led us to describe it as "[where you pretend to pay attention to work meetings](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/metaverse-dive-bars-edible-adverts-and-a-little-ai#so-which-one-will-be-known-as-the-dive-bar)" – is showing off more of its social-hang-out side.  Maybe?  That's the vibe we're getting from this recent exploration, in which [New York Times journalist Kashmir Hill donned her VR goggles to experience all HW had to offer](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/07/technology/metaverse-facebook-horizon-worlds.html). We're glad she did it, because now we won't have to.

(It's a great piece and we encourage you to read it all the way through.  Just note that she's chosen here to define "the metaverse" as "Horizon, Meta’s virtual platform for events, business meetings and user-constructed spaces."  The general consensus is that there are multiple metaverse properties, each with their own flavor and underlying implementation.  So there's more to this than Facebook and VR.  Something to keep in mind.)

Most of the metaverse coverage we've seen thus far has shown a clear divide between Corporate Entities providing some kind of service, and Everyday People consuming the service.  What caught our eye about Hill's piece was the number of ways HW lets Everyday People build their own spot ("world") for others to congregate.  Some of the comedy clubs Hill describes, for example, were created by … people who just wanted to run a comedy club.  The sort of thing that has a much higher barrier to entry in the real world.

HW requires avatars to resemble people – as opposed to the elves or robots seen in other metaverse properties – which may further explain why some experiences are such strong analogs of everyday neighborhood life.  HW has its share of games and adventure, yes; but going back to our point about digital escapism, some people don't even need a far-off world full of fantasy creatures.  They just want to be Somewhere Else:

> _“Oh, that’s me. I sleep in my headset,” said Sam \[...\]. “Imagine waking up in the most amazing place in the universe.”_
> 
> _I thought she was kidding, but she insisted that she was serious. “What does your bedroom look like? Is it where you want to live the rest of your life?” she asked._
> 
> _I told her I liked my bedroom. She persisted: “That’s where you want to die?”_

Granted, people's desire to be Somewhere Else got a strong boost from the Covid-19 pandemic.  Early 2020 saw a sudden, steep drop in opportunities for casual, in-person socializing.  So the idea of spending time "together" in a digital environment was probably more appealing than it would have been otherwise. Maybe that was the on-ramp to this digital [Soma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brave_New_World) that has people sleeping in their VR goggles?

And now that people are more comfortable meeting up in the real world (we will not, however, refer to this as "reopening" or "returning to normal") what will that mean for metaverse adoption going forward?  How much will the ability to instantly be Somewhere Else outpace the perks and drawbacks of, as the cool kids call it, meatspace?

John Hanke's Niantic aims to make that experience more exciting.  Instead of sitting in bed, curled up with goggles that are plugged into a wall, his company is building [a "real-world metaverse" based on augmented reality](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/bf115458-4675-11ed-8885-043c27446b97): 

> _"That was part of the inspiration for starting Niantic: trying to turn the world into a game board; trying to take some of those qualities of games that are so really enthralling, maybe I won’t use the word addictive, but certainly captivating kids. \[We\] take some of that, and marry it up with an activity that’s about being out in the world and being active, to try and get the best of both."_

So will we prefer more VR, AR, or something else entirely?

One thing is certain: our definitions of "reality" and "place" have changed yet again.

Though, depending on your perspective, the core elements haven't changed at all.