---
title: Tailor-made laws
---
People have a love-hate relationship with rules.  By defining boundaries, they give us a sense of certainty.  We know that action X is fine but action Y will have us standing before a judge.  And by the time we enter the courtroom, we have a rough idea of what's on the proverbial menu.  Without rules, we'd all just do whatever we want.  (And if you scale that out to "the entire population," you get the definition of anarchy.)  

Flipping that around, a _lack_ of certainty pushes our behavior to the extremes.  The one involves the get-rich-quick charlatans innovators who try lots of money-making scams ventures while their activities are still not-yet-illegal.  The other is the group of folks who wait on the sidelines. They don't want to make any plans until they know precisely what's allowed.

What separates those two is how they feel about a certain Possible Future Event, the one in which regulators declare the activities illegal and take the money away.  The innovators are willing to take the chance because, hey, maybe they _don't_ get punished and they walk away rich. The sidelines crew doesn't like all of those question marks on their balance sheet.

This is an especially acute problem in web3.  Laws around cryptocurrencies and NFTs are sparse and hazy. And rulings are usually based on regulators trying to adapt old laws to new concepts.  Which is messy.  (See: the ongoing _"Is that crypto token a security, or no?"_ debate.)  

The UK is taking a step to fill this void. Last week, the [Law Commission floated some ideas past the government to define some legal structure around digital assets](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-07-27/crypto-should-get-its-own-laws-to-aid-ownership-claims-uk-says):

> _If implemented, the reforms would make it easier for courts to decide ownership claims over tokens, and to identify risks that are unique to crypto. It could also put the UK at the forefront of establishing where crypto and decentralized finance fits into private law globally, establishing a precedent that other international legal regimes could follow._

People already possess a variety of NFTs, metaverse plots, and cryptocurrency tokens, and we don't see that slowing down any time soon.  By defining laws that are tailor-made for digital assets, the UK could spare judges from having to base their rulings on interpretations and adaptations of laws for physical property. 

The major recommendation from the Law Commission report is that crypto assets be treated as a new, third kind of property. UK law broadly splits property into tangible things (like houses and cars) and intangible things (like securities and debts) – this report would create a new category for property that is digital, exists independently of individuals, and can only be possessed by one person at a time.

To be clear, these are still recommendations and ideas_._ ([This @craigwarmke thread hits the high points](https://twitter.com/craigwarmke/status/1552660043149053952) of the report.)  The final shape of any laws could differ from what the Law Commission has proposed.  But we still look forward to legal clarifications around crypto.  We suspect that there are a lot of businesses in the Wait On the Sidelines group who are eager to share their web3 offerings with the world.