---
title: "Scam O'Clock™: Even the pros get hit"
---
Oh yes, the Scam O'Clock™ segment is back.  (Did it ever leave?)   Last week, we talked about thieves infiltrating shared services that are trusted by NFT holders.  This week's twist is that a scammer _impersonated_ a legitimate Twitter account.  That [tripped up NFT OG @krybharat, who approved several transactions](https://twitter.com/krybharat/status/1551212214731915267) before noticing that something was amiss.

They avoided complete ruin, in part because of luck (the thief was removing NFTs one at a time) and in part because of good security practices:

> _11/ I'm fortunate that I have a multi-wallet setup with a vault & hot wallet for NFTs.  If this was my vault wallet, could've been a disaster.  This clearly outlines the need for a tertiary wallet for minting etc.  Also, don't be lazy your hot wallet bloats in time...hygiene!!!_
> 
> _12/ Hope this helps some of ya'll avoid this.  It could've been orders of magnitude worse.  I got lucky, but need to be extra vigilant._  **_Never forget that self custody means you need to build your own Fort Knox.  Don't be lazy, triple check and avoid multi-tasking_.**

(The added emphasis is ours.)

We'd like to underscore the idea that these crypto scams can hit _anyone_, from the web3 novice to the expert.  We're all human.  We all slip up and miss that clue that something's out of place.  Remember that a scam only has to look convincing long enough for you to click a poisoned link, so your greatest defense is to slow down and remain focused while doing anything related to crypto.