---
title: A different kind of land rush
---
It's hard to remember phone numbers, so we store them in an address book.  And there's no way we'd ever remember the IP addresses of our favorite websites, so we rely on DNS to translate internet domain names like "[BlockAndMortar.xyz](http://BlockAndMortar.xyz)" into the dotted-quad format that every network engineer recognizes.  So it's no surprise that the crypto world has created services to translate those long wallet addresses into memorable, human-readable names.

The most popular one is the Ethereum Name Service (ENS), and it's the reason you see those ".eth" names everywhere.  By adopting an ENS name, you can have people send tokens to \[An Actual Word\].eth instead of wallet-address-1234-5678-abcdef.  And since crypto transactions only move in one direction – no refunds! – then getting the address right is of the utmost importance.

If you've ever bought an internet domain, you already know what comes next.  There's a race between people and companies buying up their namesake domains and … people who anticipate that someone will want a domain, so they buy it first and hope to flip it at a significant profit.  You know: domain squatters.

What do you do if [someone has squatted your preferred ENS domain](https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/web3-eth-new-com-ethereum-amazon-050034995.html)?  Well, if your first thought is to appeal to the domain registrar, you're still thinking in web2 terms:

> _According to Anirudh Chohan, Brand Marketing Lead of Safe, previously Gnosis Safe, the difference between the ENS project and the legacy DNS registry, is that "ENS has lived up to web3 ideals by creating a decentralised entity that issues self-custodial domains that are not managed by a centralized authority"._

You really have two choices, then: you can try to buy the domain from them, or you can get creative and pick a new name.  Think of all of the \[some name\][Movie.com](http://Movie.com) or Watch\[some name\].com domains that Hollywood has acquired over the years.  Maybe you can add "store" or "autodealer" or similar term.  

No doubt, someone will create a word-spinning service to help with this effort.  [Google Domains](http://domains.google.com) does this for internet domains and, as a bonus, it checks your spelling.  Because you don't want to accidentally buy a typo of the name you really wanted.