---
title: Keeping track of it all
---
Similar to the way DeFi is "[speedrunning the 400 year history of modern trading firms,](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/its-all-connected-and-thats-the-problem#-things-go-wrong-terraform-labs-celsius-three-arrows-capital-and-systemic-risk)" the wider web3 space is fast-forwarding through emerging-tech history.  And one page it has taken from the early-day internet era is the so-called "discovery problem," which occurs when a sector grows too large, too quickly for a person to keep track of things.  (Any mobile app developers reading this?  You've suffered this _in spades_ and we feel for you.)   With all of those web pages out there, and with new sites springing up every day, how do you find anything?

In the same way that internet search engines indexed the web to help us make sense of it all, [web3 startup Center is poised to do the same for NFTs](https://www.theblock.co/post/159791/center-raises-11-million).  The company is:

> _\[...\] attempting to index and organize every NFT on every chain and says it has 120 million NFTs on its books so far._
> 
> _“\[...W\]e're organizing all permissionless digital property rights,” the company said in a release shared exclusively with The Block._

If you only see NFTs as "those silly ape JPEGs," then you'll wonder why Center is a big deal.   But hopefully what we've said about the discovery problem sheds some light.

Beyond that, consider all of the businesses that can hang off the side of search.  Everything from advertising (so common with web search engines) to recommendations (like on a retailer's site) is fair game.  Any time you can say _"if you're looking for Item X, have you considered Similar Item Y?"_ you can build a business opportunity on top of indexing.

Also, unlike web pages, NFTs have a price component.  (OK, a high-traffic web page has a monetary value in the form of potential ad revenue or the like.  But here we mean an actual, public price tag.)  Assuming Center also tracks the _prices_ of those NFTs, it can build a very rich dataset and derive any number of data products from it: pricing assistance, price predictions, fraud detection, … 

All of this potential probably explains why a five-person company has just raised $11M in seed funding.  

We're going to keep an eye on Center, and on the NFT indexing space in general.  You may want to do the same.