---
title: “I will gladly pay you crypto for a hamburger today”
---
The credit for the [first known Bitcoin purchase](https://slate.com/business/2014/05/first-bitcoin-purchase-two-pepperoni-pizzas-from-papa-john-s.html) goes to pizza, in 2010. 

(Well, one person _purchased_ the pizza with a plain credit card and the other person _reimbursed_ them with the day's equivalent of Bitcoin.  But still …)

Today's merchants are eager to accept cryptocurrency payments directly.  Because [who needs a middleman](https://www.oreilly.com/radar/building-a-better-middleman/)?  The trouble is that many common blockchain transactions, like those using the Bitcoin or Ethereum networks, can take up to an hour to settle.  Compare that to the _seconds_ required to approve a credit card purchase.  So you're left with a choice: keep the line moving, and lose money when a transaction fails after people have walked out with the merchandise; or hold up the line, and lose money because other customers walk out before they've even placed an order.

[Chipotle has partnered with payments network Flexa](https://www.restaurantbusinessonline.com/technology/chipotle-now-accepts-cryptocurrency-payment) to bridge that gap.  Flexa handles the point-of-sale (POS) matters in real-time, settles the blockchain side of things later, and then pays the merchant.  Chipotle gets to accept payments in crypto, and you get your burrito.  Win-win.

Flexa offers another important benefit, in that they absorb any losses due to failed transactions.  This is what's known in the biz as a "risk transfer," in that the Risk of Unintentionally Free Merch moves from Chipotle's balance sheet to Flexa's.

It may seem weird to saddle that burden, but we have a hunch as to why.  (We almost wrote "eat the losses" there, but we don't do unintentional puns here.  So "saddle that burden," it is.)  Providing this risk transfer eliminates barriers in Flexa's sales process – _"No, you're never on the hook for a crypto payment failure"_ – which helps their business grow.  It's not unlike in the early days of e-commerce, when credit card issuers limited consumers' fraud risk to $50 per purchase.  Consumers felt less apprehension about handing their payment details to random merchants, and online shopping grew by leaps and bounds.