---
title: The best title for this section was already taken
---
In other NFT news, it's been a busy week in the entertainment business.  [Snoop Dogg's new restaurant, which is connected to his Bored Ape NFT character](https://watcher.guru/news/snoop-dogg-to-launch-bored-ape-themed-restaurant), will include NFTs for patrons.  [Binance will sponsor The Weeknd's upcoming tour](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/linked/149875/binance-sponsors-the-weeknds-upcoming-music-tour), for which some attendees will receive commemorative NFTs.  And we learned about [French startup Pianity, which sells music NFTs](https://twitter.com/_Techco_/status/1531349796262400003).  

(Well, there was also that story about [Kanye West filing for some NFT trademarks](https://fortune.com/2022/06/01/kanye-west-nft-trademark-application-deleted-tweet-crypto/) … but it's not yet clear what's going to happen with that.  Maybe this is just a proactive measure, to protect his work? Or perhaps he's on the verge of announcing his own project?)

Even with all that, one story stood out:

Warner Bros announced plans to [release NFTs of the classic Looney Tunes characters](https://niftys.medium.com/the-looney-tunes-land-on-niftys-813fc2e566f1) through a partnership with social platform Nifty's.  As is increasingly common with commercial NFT releases, Warner Bros will weave the tokens into a wider engagement campaign:

> _Warner Bros. has created a new storyline for the program, filled with playful antics and humor, that unfolds over the course of multiple years, exclusively for members of this Looney Tunes fan community. Along the way, NFT collectors will have the ability to participate in fun activities and games — both digitally and in real life. Fans will have the opportunity to earn rewards, including virtual meet and greets, exclusive never-before-been-seen content, special access and offers to Looney Tunes merchandise and experiences, new NFT drops, and much more._

So, these NFTs will be more than just JPEGs that anyone can right-click-save.  They'll serve as access passes to _experiences_.  (If your business has plans to release NFTs, take note.)  And by promising a multi-year arc, Warner Bros is letting prospective buyers know that their investment will have lasting value.  

As a bonus, the reporting on this topic has inspired some witty wordplay.  The best we've seen is the name of the collection itself:  "What's Up, Block?"  That beats out any title we could have come up with for this section, so we didn't even try.