--
title: The new captain takes the helm
--

Lehman brothers collapsed in 2008. It was hardly the first domino in the financial crisis, but certainly the most well-known domino at the time. The most visible. For a lot of people, Lehman was the "oh this is *real*" moment.

Still, I remember reading somewhere – for the life of me, I don't recall where – that Lehman was actually *the best job on The Street* after the crash. You can't just shut down an investing operation overnight, right? You have to unwind all of the open positions. And in the wake of a financial crisis that's claiming tons of banking jobs, [unwinding a company of that size is a guarantee of several years' steady work](https://www.bloomberg.com/features/2022-lehman-brothers-collapse-plan-repay-after-bankruptcy/).

I wonder whether FTX will fulfill a similar role. Attorney John J Ray recently took over as CEO to steer the company through bankruptcy proceedings. If the first week's discovery efforts are any indication, he and his team have a lot of work to do.

(Just in case A Certain Someone is reading this: Please notice that the new guy here is trying to *save* the company. You can't show up on your first day, toting a sink, and knock down the proverbial load-bearing walls. You only get to do that if you're a founder.)

Thus far Ray is … I was about to say "not impressed" by what he's found? But [this feels like the opposite](https://pacer-documents.s3.amazonaws.com/33/188450/042020648197.pdf):

> *Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here. From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.*

(I hereby nominate "[*Declaration Of John J. Ray III In Support Of Chapter 11 Petitions And First Day Pleadings*](https://pacer-documents.s3.amazonaws.com/33/188450/042020648197.pdf)" for Diss Track of the Year 2022.)

To put this in perspective: Ray oversaw the restructuring of the dumpster fire and poster child of corporate malfeasance called Enron. *That* Enron. For him to say your business is the worst mess he's ever seen, that's like Sam Bankman-Fried telling you that you've torched a lot of money. It means you've truly achieved something special.

Not "good," just "special."

I encourage you to read the First Day Pleadings document in full. As while you read, keep this in mind:

Yes, FTX was a mess. Yes, there were complex crypto shenanigans. Yes, the place was an example of precisely how to not run a financial institution.

But let us not forget the real issue is that *one guy walked off with the money*.
