---
title: A tale of two loans
---
[A while back, we described taking out a loan](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/newsletter-now-pay-later#instant-gratification) as placing a bet on your ability to repay it later. One point we left out is that your lender is placing that same bet.  They believe in you – sort of –  but they could also use some extra assurance.  So they ask you to _secure_ that loan by providing some _collateral_ that they can claim if you go into default.

(Compare that to _unsecured_ loans like revolving credit cards, and you see why those interest rates are much higher compared to a mortgage.  For an unsecured loan, a lender only has your word, so the higher interest rate is their compensation for taking that extra risk.)

We've seen people taking out loans to buy crypto. And we've seen [cryptocurrency tokens used as collateral](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/of-credit-cards-digital-land-and-real-money#having-your-crypto-and-spending-it-too) for mortgages. But now that we're seeing _NFTs used as collateral,_ it's time for A Tale of Two Loans:

The first loan is a mortgage, so the house itself serves as the collateral: if you stop paying, the bank can reclaim the house as their property.  The thing is, the banks are in the business of issuing loans, not owning and maintaining houses. So they usually try to work with you to modify payment terms or whatever.  This slow, methodical process takes place over months and it involves lots of letters and phone calls.  Repossessing – foreclosing on – the home is a last resort.

The second loan takes place on a cryptocurrency exchange and your NFTs serve as collateral.  (Some NFTs cost more than houses, so this isn't completely unrealistic.)  Should you go into default, the lender – well, its code, written into the smart contract – automatically and instantaneously _liquidates_ the loan.  No phone calls, no letters, no deal-making to adjust the loan's terms.  You lose your NFT collateral in the blink of an eye.

[Some people are living that second scenario as their loans from crypto lending service BendDAO are coming due](https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/19/many-bored-ape-nfts-are-in-danger-of-getting-liquidated-as-borrowed-money-comes-back-to-bite/).  Borrowers put up their Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) NFTs as collateral, and BendDAO lets them take out loans based on a percentage of the _floor price_ (that of lowest-priced item in the entire BAYC collection).  That percentage – the loan-to-value ratio, or LTV – is roughly 40%.  So if the cheapest Bored Ape is currently $100,000, you could borrow up to $40,000 through BendDAO.

And since the entire crypto market is going through a rough time right now, those ape JPEGs are worth a lot less.  That $40,000 you borrowed has gone from "hey this is OK" to "you need to pony up more collateral or pay off a portion of the loan, pronto.

We've mentioned before that cryptocurrency and NFTs can be a person's intro to variable-priced assets.  That was a useful shorthand, but not completely true, because most asset values fluctuate over time.  The distinction is in how quickly and how dramatically those valuations change. Your home's value, for example, may take years to shift due to changes in the surrounding area and maybe even the wider macroeconomic climate.  An NFT's value, by comparison, can swing overnight. 

So what's the lesson here?  From our view, the lesson is _not_ "don't use ape JPEGs as collateral."  An asset is an asset, so that's not the problem. The lesson is "be mindful of how you choose collateral."  Especially in a world where that asset can be reclaimed, in an instant, without any way to negotiate.

(Bonus lesson: "if you've taken out a loan to buy that BAYC NFT, maybe don't use that same NFT as collateral for a _different_ loan."  Chaining loans like that just compounds your stress.)