---
title: "Blockchain: star pupil of the emerging tech world"
---
If you've been following the Big Data data science machine learning AI space as long as we have, you've probably noticed two things:

1.  It's been on a good run since, what, 2009?  All of that excitement really drove corporate adoption.
    
2.  A couple of years ago, companies started to acknowledge that [their AI adoption wasn't going quite according to plan](https://venturebeat.com/2019/07/19/why-do-87-of-data-science-projects-never-make-it-into-production/).  
    

If you read between the lines, those companies hadn't developed a strong understanding of what AI really was and how it would work.  They got caught up in the success stories of item #1, didn't do their homework, and found themselves in the pit of item #2.

And blockchain, always the star pupil of the emerging tech world, has managed to reach that state …. in less than half the time.  

Several large, well-known companies in the insurance space – including Allianz, Swiss Re, and Generali – formed The Blockchain Insurance Industry Initiative (B3i consortium) to help port insurance services to blockchain technology.  And last week, [after five years, B3i threw in the towel](https://www.insurancejournal.com/news/international/2022/07/29/677926.htm).

What went wrong?  According to Swiss Re Group CEO Christian Mumenthaler:

> _“We would need an end-to-end view. It would need all insurance companies to basically create smart contracts at the beginning, at the origin.”_
> 
> _\[...\]_
> 
> _The problem, he noted, is that all insurers would have to switch their IT systems to be able to create smart contracts._

Deloitte fintech specialist Julien Maldonato has a slightly different take.  He has seen a common thread each time companies have tried to apply blockchain to insurance ([translated from a source piece](https://lesechos.fr/finance-marches/banque-assurances/blockchain-une-quinzaine-de-grands-assureurs-internationaux-jettent-leponge-1781742)): "

> _You can't establish a web3 system while doing web2, using a decentralized system with the intent to centralize everything \[ … such as\] creating your own database, your own certification system, and so on.  That doesn't work because it's too expensive to develop and it doesn't meet the need of knowing how to make a service faster and more secure._

Whether you take Mumenthaler's view or Muldanato's, it sounds more like the insurance industry heavyweights behind B3i got ahead of themselves. Especially when you consider that "enterprise blockchain" success stories have been rather limited to date.  (That's not just because of the challenges of integrating blockchain technology into an existing business.  Also consider what it takes to achieve interoperability between _multiple_ companies.)

So we think the take-home lesson is that it's great to be excited and see the potential for a new technology … but you also need to develop an understanding of how it works, and how to weave it into your business operations _before_ moving forward.