---
title: Canada crypto clarity
---
Some people enjoy the current Wild West side of crypto, but longtime readers will know how much your Block & Mortar editors would prefer some rules. We strongly believe that regulatory clarity will lead to wider adoption.  And while we certainly don't claim that Any Regulation Is Good Regulation – rules should make sense, after all – we also know that Lack of Regulation Leads To Surprise Crackdowns, And That Hinders Adoption.

(What, "recent TornadoCash issues?"  No, we couldn't possibly be talking about that.)

We're pleased to see that [Canada has recently defined some rules on cryptocurrency purchases](https://coingape.com/canada-restricts-crypto-heres-how-the-new-rules-affect-you/):

> _Nine provinces in Canada have decided to limit the amount of crypto you can buy in a year. The provinces have set an annual limit of $30,000 as the maximum amount of crypto that can be brought. However, there are four notable exceptions for cryptocurrencies under this rule._ 
> 
> _Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, and Bitcoin Cash are exempted from this regulation. As a result, those four tokens will not be counted in your annual limit._

On the one hand, it's easy to cast aspersions on how the provinces are handling this. People generally don't like restrictions.  Doubly so since the idea of a government limiting your purchases runs contrary to the crypto ethos.  Fair. 

On the other hand, the two major cryptocurrencies – Bitcoin and Ethereum – do not fall under this rule, so it sounds like you're free to buy as much of those as you can afford.  We read this as Canada nudging people to the more well-known parts of the crypto ecosystem, which may limit citizens' exposure to certain kinds of crypto scams.

Taking a long view, remember that we're in the very early days of crypto regulation.  Governments are still figuring out what's the best long-term approach. It's similar to smartphones: over time, feature sets have converged and devices are largely similar. Manufacturers figured out that "powerful cameras," "on-screen keyboards," and "plenty of storage space for cat photos" were the must-haves. We expect to see the same with crypto regulation. 

Who will wind up as the iPhone (the clear trendsetter) and who will be the Blackberry (good for the start but eventually fell off the radar)?  Time will tell.