---
title: "Things Go Wrong™: FTX meltdown edition"
---

FTX was – yes, "was"; I've kinda given away the ending there – one of the larger players in the cryptocurrency space. It had earned a reputation for bailing out failed crypto groups and making those customers whole.

And then … FTX blew up this week.

Many say it collapsed due to a bank run. I think that's sort of what happened. But sort of not.

It helps to understand how retail banks work. You convince people to give you their money for safe-keeping. They trust that the money they hand you today will still be there tomorrow, next week, and next year when they want to withdraw some of it. So far, so good.

But you're not content to just *hold* the money. You want to *make* money. Lots of it. So you loan depositors' cash to someone else and charge them interest for the privilege. As Jacob Goldstein explains in [*Money: The True Story of a Made-Up Thing*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50358103-money):

> *That money – your money – is now in two places at once. It's your money, in your account at the bank. It is also the borrower's money. The borrower can deposit her money at another bank, which can then lend some of it out to yet another borrower. The same dollar is now in three places at once.*

This act of defiance against the laws of physics sleight of hand works for two reasons:

1.  The money people give you is *fungible*. Every dollar is interchangeable, indistinguishable from the next. People don't need their specific dollars back.
    
2.  It's unlikely that *all* depositors will want *all* of their money back *at the same time*.
    

The first point makes your scheme possible. The second point puts you at risk of a bank run. That's when depositors all rush in at once to withdraw their money. Money that you don't have, because you played chicken with the laws of probability. Now that you've hit this negligible-but-still-entirely-possible chance that *everyone* wants *all of* their money, *right now,* you're in trouble.

(Let's take a second to appreciate how the equivalent of a bank run would be absurd in any other venue. Imagine the calamity of, say, a baggage carousel run. Or a parking garage run, where they've loaned your car out for the day so it's not there when you happen to leave work early.)

But if you insist on accepting other people's money and moving it around when they're not looking, there are ways you can reduce your exposure to a run. For example, you could lend out only a tiny amount of the total deposits. Or lend only to very trustworthy, stable entities.

You most certainly would not want to:

-   Hand it to someone whose entire business model is based on only *maybe* paying you back. Like a hedge fund. They tell you up-front: "we may give you back your money and then some. But we may also lose it. This is not a place to put money that you absolutely, positively need to see again."
    
-   Hand it to someone who *most certainly* will not pay it back. Doubly so if that someone is … your alter ego.
    

All of that takes us back to FTX. From what I've read, it went down something like this:

1.  People gave money to FTX, retail-style.
    
2.  \[scene missing\]
    
3.  Somehow several billion dollars of that money wound up in the hands of FTX's sister hedge fund, Alameda Research.
    
4.  \[scene missing\]
    
5.  That money is now gone.
    
6.  Last week, rumors spread that FTX had a lot less money than they claimed. The growing loss of confidence led depositors to (try to) withdraw their funds.
    
7.  Friday afternoon the company formally filed for bankruptcy.
    
8.  Did I mention, the money is now gone?
    

(I've oversimplified for brevity. There was a lot more going on here, including some nonsense with their FTT token, but this is the gist.)

So does this count as a bank run?

In the pure textbook sense, yes: people went to pull their funds from FTX and FTX said "yeh I don't have that."

In a realistic sense, no: it's not as though the company had put the money into stable investments that just happened to overlap with people making untimely withdrawals. As far as the world can tell, the ten billion dollars is just … gone. Which leads to the question of how ("whether?") FTX had planned to honor withdrawals. And what would be the proper term to describe the money's disappearing act.

Some writers have compared this to the Lehman Brothers or Bear Stearns meltdowns of 2008. Others say it's more Enron-style, due to the alleged misallocation of funds. (Surprisingly enough, I didn't see any LTCM comparisons.)

But no. Lehman and Bear collapsed due to exposure to mortgage-related instruments. Enron was playing accounting games with a splash of mark-to-theoretical. What happened last week was, quite simply, FTX. Not "crypto." FTX. The FTX collapse will go down in history as its own deal, and will no doubt serve as the foundation of countless PhD theses in economics and finance. (And maybe, criminology?)

What next? It's tough to say. Crypto collapses are becoming increasingly common – this is the third major one since this newsletter launched, just six months ago – but how many more could there be? Sooner or later we'll run out of players big enough for us to notice when they fall apart.

(Maybe, after "[speedrunning the 400 year history of modern trading firms](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/its-all-connected-and-thats-the-problem#-things-go-wrong-terraform-labs-celsius-three-arrows-capital-and-systemic-risk)," DeFi will eventually learn about risk management? Unlikely, but maybe.)

The world also doesn't know the full extent of the damage. FTX's collapse has already brought about [troubles in crypto lender BlockFi](https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/crypto-lender-blockfi-pauses-withdrawals-in-wake-of-ftx-collapse/). A number of crypto organizations, to calm their users, have publicly denied any exposure to the company. Others, [like investor Sequoia Capital,](https://techcrunch.com/2022/11/09/sequoia-capital-marks-its-ftx-investment-down-to-zero-dollars/) have acknowledged their investments in FTX and marked them down to zero. It's likely there will be other such announcements in the near future.

As I write this, a number of film studios are no doubt scrambling to release documentaries on FTX's demise. (Michael Lewis, of *Liar's Poker* and *The Big Short* fame, is similarly scrambling to update the book he'd been writing on FTX. This was probably not the twist ending he was expecting.) Hopefully those don't oversimplify the story as much as I have in this segment.
