---
title: Making that paper trail digital
---

Supply chains are an interesting concept. In order to get from some distant farm or factory to your front door, goods pass through a variety of locations, vehicles, and warehouses. Many of these elements belong to different companies. Something is bound to get misplaced at some point.

It would be nice to track what's gone where, so a company could catch problems in short order. Maybe ring up a carrier or a warehouse manager to understand why package XYZ didn't make it onto that plane.

This calls for a tamper-resistant ledger, visible to all parties involved, to track the point-to-point movement of a specific item. That's the textbook use case for blockchain. And [TradeMark East, along with Kenya's Institute of Export and International Trade, is running a pilot program](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/b19575f6-5c24-11ed-9b1f-f7c251e9dfdc) to give it a try:

> *Rather than requiring dozens of paper documents to travel with the weekly shipments of flowers from Nairobi airport to \[England's Stansted airport\], via Istanbul, they are being processed on secure distributed ledger software, the technology that supports crypto currencies, under a pilot scheme backed by the Cabinet Office. The initiative is saving farmers and shippers time and money and is eliminating the risk that local officials are offered chai, a local phrase for bribes, to fast track checks and paperwork to enable shipments to be loaded on time.*

This is a great idea. Technology generally helps speed up manual processes. And blockchain's transparency should reduce corruption along the way. This program therefore reduces paperwork while improving the paper trail. Win-win.

There is one catch. The article notes that while the Kenyan side of this is humming along, the pilot program does not extend all the way through the supply chain into the UK side. This is a common challenge with new technology – not everyone is ready at the same time – but hopefully the work with TradeMark East continues running, and the UK side eventually catches up.
