---
title: Making the world a little more pixelated
---

A previous Block and Mortar newsletter raised a point about [metaverse properties finding their identity](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/metaverse-dive-bars-edible-adverts-and-a-little-ai#so-which-one-will-be-known-as-the-dive-bar):

> *The world is still sorting out what counts as a "metaverse" and what it's good for, but metaverse properties are each starting to find their role and vibe. This is important for three reasons:*
> 
> 1.  *While some properties will certainly want to become The Everything Place, they know deep down that* ***they'll develop a reputation for fulfilling a particular consumer interest and need.*** *This is the same with restaurants and bars: you can't be the sports bar and the upscale wine bar and the dive bar all at once.*
>     
>     *\[...\]*
>     
> 
> *Consider the big names in the metaverse properties. Roblox and Fortnite? People go here for events, like games or concerts. Horizon Worlds? This is where you pretend to pay attention to work meetings. The Sandbox? It's feeling pretty retail-focused thus far.*

It's important for metaverse providers to think this through. They need to know what kind of venue they're going to be, so they can build accordingly.

It's equally important for the companies that want to set up shop in those properties. [Brands currently treat these digital worlds as places to interact with people](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/in-app-nfts-people-want-more-rules-and-diet-web3#diet-web3). And that means understanding what sort of people will be hanging out there when they arrive.

[Burberry, for example, has established a presence in Minecraft](https://www.voguebusiness.com/technology/burberry-partners-with-minecraft-as-it-goes-deeper-into-gaming). This may seem a strange mix but the fashion house definitely has a plan:

> *“Gaming is a super important channel for us in terms of how we engage our customer,” \[Burberry director of channel innovation Phillip\] Hennche says. “We know that it’s a very important passion point for our target markets and consumers. We know that they are there, they are present, and they’re very active in that community.” With this partnership, Burberry hopes to reach both its customers that it knows are already playing Minecraft, and users who might not yet have engaged with the brand.*

Also of note is how Burberry has approached the project. They're not just establishing a presence in this world; they're blending in with Minecraft's blocky feel:

> *“We’ve created something that feels very us: very elevated, very fashion, very luxury — but also very Minecraft,” Hennche says. Here, Burberry signals an openness to metaverse aesthetics that have not always been readily embraced by the fashion industry. The aesthetics of the metaverse and Web3 graphics have been critiqued as fashion has delved further into the space. Minecraft is famously blocky and pixelated — not an obvious choice for a luxury brand. To Burberry, this was another opportunity to lean toward the unexpected, opting for a less classically high-fidelity world in which to create designs and activities.*

It's tempting for businesses to try to bend new technology to the old ways. Hats off to Burberry for seeing itself through the Minecraft lens and building something that represents both companies' distinct flavors.

One interesting note about Burberry's choice of metaverse partner is that Minecraft formally [banned NFTs earlier this year](https://variety.com/2022/digital/news/minecraft-bans-nfts-scarcity-exclusion-1235321467/#!). Since brands lean heavily into NFTs to connect physical to digital, building loyalty through on-chain collectibles, working with Minecraft will require their teams to get creative. Or, at least, they will have to think outside the box and ask whether that particular digital-to-physical connection is even necessary.
