---
title: Crypto, making investments
---
Having covered money flowing _into_ the web3 ecosystem, let's consider the money flowing _out_ of that space and back into the wider world.

Last week Sam Bankman-Fried, CEO of crypto exchange and growing financial empire FTX, dropped hints as to how he would donate his money to political campaigns.   [About $1 billion worth of hints](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/article/sam-bankman-fried-may-donate-1-billion-to-stop-donald-trump-in-2024), to be clear.

He [outlined his views in a Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/SBF_FTX/status/1529439386449985536), where he noted how he would align this financial support.  One tweet in particular sums it up:

> _6)In the end I care about policy, not politics, and I don’t think either party has a monopoly on good ideas._
> 
> _My contributions could be substantial, or not; and their party breakdown will depend on the candidates and policies._

Bankman-Fried – or SBF, as he is more affectionately abbreviated – is hardly the first wealthy business owner to spread their influence by donating to a political campaign. What makes him stand out is that he hails from the crypto space.  And we doubt he'll be the only one.

That should serve as a wake-up call to politicians, government appointees, and business leaders who are openly anti-crypto.  Or who dismiss cryptocurrency as "magic internet money."  No one knows for sure where DeFi will be some years down the road; but for now, the money flowing through the space is very real.  And some of that money will find its way into campaign contributions.