---
title: This token's not for trading
---
NFTs mostly have a reputation as assets to be traded for profit. Maybe you grab something for a [quick flip](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/145818/yuga-labs-otherdeed-virtual-land-nft-sells-for-record-1-5-million) opportunity, or you try a slower, buy-and-hold approach.  

What does it mean for a token to instead be treated as an indicator of achievement or status, or something else that is meant to be tied to an entity?  Something that can't be traded?  Using crypto tokens for certificates is not new but a recent paper,  ["Decentralized Society: Finding Web3's Soul,"](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4105763)  takes a deeper look into _soulbound tokens_ (SBTs) and their use in _decentralized society_ (DeSoc).

The paper was written by E. Glen Weyl (Microsoft Research and RadicalxChange Foundation), Puja Ohlhaver (Flashbots), and most notably, Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin.  When we [first saw the headline](https://twitter.com/iamjasonlevin/status/1527316022457356301), we had a number of concerns about the implications – everything from pseudonymity and privacy, to the mechanics of the operation – but the paper covered them in detail. 

We think it's worth a read for anyone considering use cases for crypto tokens beyond asset-trading purposes.  

One such example involves Know Your Customer/Anti-Money Laundering (KYC/AML) rules.  What if you didn't have to submit all of that personal information every time you opened an account at a crypto exchange?  What if, instead, you could point them to an SBT associated with your wallet?  "A central, trusted authority has already performed that KYC check and I'm clear.  It's right here, on-chain."  This reduces onboarding friction for the crypto exchange, because checking for that SBT is faster and cleaner than handling a bunch of personal info.  And this preserves the privacy of the wallet owner, because only the central authority has seen the details required to perform that KYC check.  Win-win.

(And if this sounds like SSL certificates to you – "I trust Verisign, Verisign trusts you, therefore I trust you" – you're on the right track.)