---
title: "Things Go Wrong™: “Bridges and Wallets and Hacks Oh My” edition"
---
_(We co-wrote this section with Shane Glynn. Some of you may know him as the guy who reviews our newsletter drafts. He's also an experienced attorney who has spent the past few years focused on crypto.)_

We went an entire month without a Things Go Wrong™ segment.  (Sure, that's because we had a few Scam O'Clock™ pieces, but who's counting?)  And now it's back, in the form of two very painful software bugs.  That pain takes the form of about $200 million in immediate financial losses, with a side of Banging One's Head Against The Wall while chanting "so obvious in hindsight."

It started on Monday 01 August, when the Nomad bridge suffered a hack that led to loss of almost [$200M in cryptocurrency](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2022/08/03/solana-nomad-hacks-security-questions/). The origin of the hack was traced to an issue that Quantstamp, a web3 security firm, had noted several months ago ([QSP-19 in this doc](https://github.com/nomad-xyz/docs/blob/1ff0c55dba2a842c811468c57793ff9a6542ef0f/docs/public/Nomad-Audit.pdf)).  

An issue that Nomad's team marked as “not a bug.”

Oops. 

Separately, the next day, several thousand Solana users lost funds. Initially there was widespread confusion as to the source of the hack and what wallets were affected.  There were concerns that the exploit was in the Solana network code itself, and this led to degraded performance on Solana overall. 

Eventually the problem was traced to [a bug in a (closed-source) software wallet named Slope](https://decrypt.co/106649/solana-wallet-hack-what-we-know-so-far).  The problem?  The app was sending the seed phrase, which is used to recover a wallet’s private key, back to Slope.  (Bad.)  

And possibly to other groups.  (Very bad.) 

[In plain text](https://www.theblock.co/post/161425/slope-wallet-provider-saved-user-seed-phrases-in-plain-text-solana-security-researchers-find).  (Realllly bad.)  

To date, this bug is responsible for approximately $5 million in losses. (_\[censored\]._)

We emphasize that the Slope issue was not a "hack," but a "bug."  A "hack" would be "an outsider broke Slope's code and got it to divulge info."  Based on what we've read, it sounds more like "Slope's developers introduced a data leak into their app, which hackers (and, frankly, anyone else) could potentially misuse."  

This leak, the "plain text" we mentioned above, appears to be some kind of logging.  This is how developers save details of application activity to assist in support efforts.  For example, an app might log: "At 7:35AM, User1234 initiated a push. At 7:36AM, the remote server failed to respond and the app crashed."

And to be clear, _logging like this is generally good software development practice_. When your code runs in a distributed environment, or on someone else's systems, you lose visibility into what is happening and that makes it very difficult to troubleshoot.  Experienced developers leave detailed log messages as a digital paper trail to balance that out.  Where Slope dropped the ball, in our view, is that they logged sensitive information. 

And if that is indeed the case, this would make for a very expensive log message.  About $5 million for one line of code.