---
title: Getting a piece of that secondary market
---
No matter where you went to school, we all share the experience of having shelled out cash for textbooks that we hardly used. Maybe it was on a topic that you knew you wouldn't need after graduation.  Or you had that one annoying prof who insisted that you buy a whole book just so they could refer to two pages of it in class. 

Whatever the case, this led to the _other_ shared experience: Selling That Book To Get Some Of Your Hard-Earned Money Back Because It's Weird When A Few Hundred Pages Of Print Material Cost More Than A Week's Worth Of Food And We're Getting Kinda Hungry. So some other student got the book at a discount, and you got to splurge at the grocery store.  Win-win.

Textbook publishers have expressed mixed reactions to this vibrant secondary market. Some have shrugged. Others have chosen to issue barely-updated books each year, a move that _just coincidentally_ wrecked the resale value of the previous edition because it was now technically out of date.

We wish this were just an odd trip down memory lane – a little digression that we'd forgotten to trim from the newsletter before hitting "send" – but you already know where this is going. A textbook publisher has dipped its toes into the web3 waters.  [This excerpt from The Guardian (which is quoting Bloomberg) says it all](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2022/aug/02/pearson-plans-to-sell-its-textbooks-as-nfts):

> _\[Pearson\] CEO Andy Bird explained his plan to sell digital textbooks as NFTs, allowing the publisher to track the ownership of a book even when it changes hands, Bloomberg reported. “In the analogue world, a Pearson textbook was resold up to seven times, and we would only participate in the first sale,” he said, explaining that “technology like blockchain and NFTs allows us to participate in every sale of that particular item as it goes through its life”._

This is not the first time we've seen a publisher mix NFTs and ebooks.   (That honor goes to [the folks issuing NFT ebooks of Robert Heinlein's work](https://www.einpresswire.com/article/575594841/heinlein-makes-history-again-the-pursuit-of-the-pankera-will-be-the-first-ever-numbered-collectible-ebook-published). We can thank a sharp-eyed reader for sending that story our way.  You know who you are!)  Nor will it be the last.  Pretty much every company will try to blend the new hotness known as web3 into their secret sauce.  And that's great.  The best way to uncover web3's capabilities is for people to try things.

On the one hand, we're business owners, so we certainly respect the hustle to find new revenue sources.  We support artists using NFTs to get a cut of resale for their work. And we want restaurants to get a piece of the action when someone sells an NFT-based loyalty pass.

On the other hand, we can't help but to see Pearson's plan as some kind of weird, reverse-Robin Hood move.  (Robin Hood the character, not the retail trading app that brought GameStop back to life.) 

By the by: what textbooks did you most enjoy selling? And which ones do you wish you'd kept?