---
title: If you love JPEGs, set them free
---
Licenses don't specify so much what is _possible,_ but what is _permitted_. This distinction is especially important when materials are released in a form that people are able to copy, modify, or redistribute.  Books and open source software are prime examples.

As are digital images, which are the most common form of NFT these days.  And in the NFT space, big names like [XCOPY](https://twitter.com/XCOPYART) and [Moonbirds](https://twitter.com/kevinrose/status/1555262099093200896) are [opting for the Creative Commons Zero (CC0) license](https://a16zcrypto.com/cc0-nft-creative-commons-zero-license-rights/).  This is a creator's way of saying: "Do what you want with it.  You can make money, not make money, whatever.  You don't even have to credit me. I just want this to be out there."  To release work as [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/) is to effectively put it in the public domain.

Books and music are released under copyright, and even a lot of open source software projects use formal licenses that define boundaries on how their work may be used.  So why would an artist, having put their time and energy into creating something, release it under such liberal terms?  

Writ small, some artists are willing to trade control for fame.  CC0 reduces barriers to sharing, so this gives their work the greatest chance to spread.  As described by NFT creator and collector [@Punk6529](https://twitter.com/punk6529), CC0 demonstrates that an NFT – the actual record of ownership, as etched into a blockchain – has value separate from the artwork.  6529's NFTs remain valuable even though anyone can duplicate and commercially exploit them just as though they were the original artist.

Writ large, this openness to sharing and remixing can provide other creators with raw materials on which to build.  (To the patent and copyright law scholars out there: we know what you're about to say.  And we're with you on that.)  Those people may, in turn, choose to CC0 that derivative work for _other_ creators to use, and the cycle repeats.  If enough artists release their work under CC0, they are giving the entire NFT space the greatest chance to spread.

This reminds us of the early days of open source software.  When it was released, the [GNU General Public License](https://opensource.org/licenses/gpl-license) (GPL) was a stark contrast to the commercial, proprietary software licenses of the day.  It allowed people access to the raw source code, and even granted them the right to build on it.  The catch?  The license's so-called virality requires that anything built on GPL'd software must _also_ be released under the GPL.  GPL'd software experiences a kind of "freedom" in that it can never be locked away inside a commercial entity.

Love or loathe the GPL, it's hard to imagine the 1990s tech boom without it. The fancy Android phone in your pocket, the Linux machine that serves up this e-mail, and even the open-source compilers used to build some proprietary software, they all have their roots in early-day GPL'd tools.  It was radical when it was released and continues to be relevant thirty years later, even if it is now just one of many open source licenses in use.

GPL and CC0 are two very different licenses, as far as their terms.  But we see that they are similar in purpose: they help ideas to spread and they discourage commercial interests from closing those ideas down.  

And that leads us to two questions:

For one, consider that the [BSD](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause), [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), and [Apache](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) licenses were born as alternatives to the GPL.  They provide a different kind of "freedom," one that makes it possible for authors to maintain their original open-source work (so no corporation could claim it as their own) while still allowing for adoption in commercial spaces (because corporate software development shops are, understandably, wary of building on GPL libraries).  When we consider the alternatives to CC0, the NFT equivalents of BSD/MIT/Apache licenses – which artists will opt for non-commercial rights versus non-exclusive commercial rights versus something else altogether?

Two, what's the ideal license for releasing _corporate_ NFTs? In theory, those groups don't need a liberal license to help spread their ideas (they have huge marketing budgets for that), so CC0 doesn't offer them much benefit.  Will they all create custom, proprietary licenses?  Over time, will those converge into a small handful of well-known, well-researched commercial licenses?