---
title: But will people customize the NFTs the way they customize their drinks?
---
Businesses rely on a lot of metrics.  Three that are especially important in the B2C realm are:

*   **cost of customer acquisition** – money you spend to convert a _prospect_ into a _customer_ (this is usually a function of marketing) 
*   **cost of customer retention** – what you spend to keep customers coming back
*   **customer lifetime value** – oversimplifying a bit, this is the total amount of money the customer spends on you (minus what you've spent on them)  

Customer acquisition and retention are investments. Lifetime value is the return on those investments.  And because customer acquisition is so costly compared to retention – a one-time customer may represent a negative lifetime value – companies are willing to throw some cash into developing loyalty programs.  Frequent flier miles and status perks work wonders for getting people to keep spending with you.  ([Building predictive models to determine when a customer is pregnant and send them coupons](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/19/magazine/shopping-habits.html) also works, but there's the added creepy factor.  So maybe don't take that route.)

[Starbucks plans to spice up its very robust loyalty program with some web3 appeal](https://techcrunch.com/2022/08/03/starbucks-to-unveil-its-web3-based-rewards-program-next-month/).  The combination coffee roaster/freelancer office space has offered scant details, so we don't have a lot to share.  We expect there will be plenty of [NFTs with Benefits](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/nfts-with-benefits-the-changing-sands-of-time-and-investing-in-a-country#nfts-with-benefits).  There will also be plenty of lessons to learn, so take notes.  You'll get to watch how a large chain's web3 decisions – the underlying blockchain, terms, and benefits – play out in public.

One particularly interesting aspect of loyalty programs is that they are sealed economies. The proprietors determine the internal value of the points ("how many miles do you trade for a free flight?") as well as its exchange rate with fiat currency ("you can buy _X_ miles for _Y_ dollars"). And they can change those decisions at will.  Airlines, hotels, and some coffee chains play the role of central banker.  

Adding web3 to the mix opens new questions then: how will these companies maintain their programs over the long-term?  What will be the impact of a large change, some future equivalent of moving from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake?  How much have they researched potential security problems? And will they permit people to sell their status or loyalty tokens on the secondary market?  We'll probably see a variety of answers in the near-term.  Over time, expect industry players to sort out best practices and standardize across the board.