---
title: Where the crypto approach breaks down
---
It's easy to get caught up in the excitement of applying a new technology to an old problem.  That's why it's important to remember that no plan is perfect.  So let's take a step back and review our plan for holes.

(Note that some of these challenges have workarounds or solutions, but others are simply inherent to the crypto approach.)

**Getting prospects to buy tokens:** Buying cryptocurrency tokens is still a relatively new idea for the mainstream market.  Similar to the early days of e-commerce, people are understandably skeptical of getting involved in crypto.  Asking a prospective client to buy crypto tokens may introduce needless friction to your sales process.   (Especially since crypto keeps appearing in the news for all the wrong reasons: price crashes, hacks, scams, and torching the environment.)

This may be easier if you and your clients are early adopters of new technology.  You can also hedge your bets by first introducing prepayments _without_ crypto, then easing into it over time by offering a portion of your slots via tokens.

**Jump-starting the market:**  The greatest benefit to your clients – that they can resell the tokens on the secondary market if their plans change – doesn't exist at the beginning.  (Not unless your services are already quite popular.)  

You can reward these early adopters by reducing their risk.  Offer to buy the token back from them, at a discounted rate, if they need to reschedule.  This is a twist on the "cancellation fee" or "forfeit some portion of the deposit" that they'd experience in a traditional, non-crypto prepayment arrangement.

**Accounting ramifications:** When do you recognize the revenue from the token sale, since it could be weeks or months away from when the service is provided?  There are already standards for this, yes, but how many of those apply to crypto?  This space is still sorting itself out.  You'd do well to meet with a knowledgeable tax advisor to explore your options.

**Adding fine print:** You'll want to make sure that all token buyers are bound by some terms of service (TOS) agreement.  For example, if your services fall under export restrictions, a buyer would need to provide proof that they hail from a friendly country.  Or maybe you'd want the right to refuse service under certain circumstances.  This is where an experienced attorney could draft that contract language.  And a solid web developer could confirm that everyone who buys the tokens actually sees and agrees to those terms.