---
title: A web3 coffee odyssey
---
Sorting out use cases for a new technology can feel daunting at times.  It helps to understand what it _really_ is, on a fundamental level, to unlock ideas.  Consider that NFTs are built on cryptocurrency tokens, which are built on blockchains. So if we can think of use cases for blockchains, some of those will bubble up into uses for tokens and NFTs.

Blockchains are ultimately tamper-resistant systems for logging events: _"person A moved value B to person C on time D"_ or _"item A moved from facility B to truck G at time C."_  This framing also works for _"customer A completed action B at time C,"_  which is why companies are increasingly exploring blockchain technology for their loyalty programs.  It feels natural to model customers as wallets, loyalty points as fungible tokens, and special participation as NFTs. 

(For more details on the economics of loyalty programs, please [check out this newsletter segment from last month](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/expensive-code-free-jpegs-and-coffee-nfts#but-will-people-customize-the-nfts-the-way-they-customize-their-drinks).)  

And if you've been thinking about how to employ web3 for your company's loyalty program, the new [Starbucks "Odyssey" is worth a look](https://stories.starbucks.com/press/2022/starbucks-brewing-revolutionary-web3-experience-for-its-starbucks-rewards-members/):

> _Starbucks Odyssey will be an extension of the industry-leading Starbucks Rewards program \[...\]. Once logged in, members can engage in Starbucks Odyssey ‘journeys,’ a series of activities, such as playing interactive games or taking on fun challenges to deepen their knowledge of coffee and Starbucks. Members will be rewarded for completing journeys with a digital collectable ‘journey stamp’ (NFT)._

It's notable that such a large, high-profile player is embracing web3.  Sure.  What we find even more interesting is that they've clearly put a lot of planning into this.  Odyssey is not your typical case of a company throwing a new technology in the mix just because it's cool.  Quite the contrary:

**Environmental impact:**  Starbucks has built Odyssey on the Polygon network.  Polygon uses the low(er)-energy Proof of Stake scheme for validating blockchain activities, compared to the resource-hungry Proof of Work scheme used by Bitcoin (and, [until recently, Ethereum](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/deconstructing-a-band-models-not-the-ai-kind-and-the-merge#and-then-theres-the-merge)).  This is both an environmental win and a PR measure.  No one can accuse Odyssey of burning down the rainforests for issuing JPEGs.

**Ease of use:** Starbucks recognizes that most people are not familiar with day-to-day blockchain concepts, so [it's hiding that to reduce barriers to entry](https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/12/starbucks-unveils-its-blockchain-based-loyalty-platform-and-nft-community-starbucks-odyssey/):

> _\[Starbucks\] opted to make NFTs the passes that allow access to this digital community, but it’s intentionally obscuring the nature of the technology underpinning the experience in order to bring in more consumers — including non-technical people — to the web3 platform.  
>   
> “It happens to be built on blockchain and web3 technologies, but the customer — to be honest — may very well not even know that what they’re doing is interacting with blockchain technology. It’s just the enabler,” Brewer explains._

That TechCrunch article further explains that the company is using the term "journey stamp" instead of "NFT," which further separates the user experience from the underlying technology. No doubt Starbucks is proud of the tech stack it's put together, but we wager their team is saving that for internal high-fives.  The company is outwardly focused on its customers, who care more about coffee than crypto.  

(If you've been thinking about a web3-based loyalty program but have been put off by asking customers to manage crypto wallets, take note. We're seeing more and more companies handle the backing wallet mechanics on behalf of customers, and people will eventually expect this as a standard.)

**Focus on the outcome:** Moving beyond the purely technical aspects, Starbucks has built Odyssey as a way to truly engage with its loyal customers.  Quoting the TechCrunch piece again:

> _\[Customers will\] be able to engage with various activities, which Starbucks called “journeys” — like playing interactive games or taking on challenges designed to deepen their knowledge of the Starbucks brand or coffee in general. As they complete these journeys, members can collect early digital collectibles in the form of NFTs (non-fungible tokens)._

Whereas your typical loyalty program is purely transactional in nature – "do this activity ten times and get a free item" – Odyssey is designed to build an experience to cultivate brand affinity.  This highlights the difference between, say, taking a one-off class at a local university versus pursuing the full requirements for a degree.  Starbucks has removed the friction where it causes trouble (by handling the blockchain matters behind the scenes) while introducing friction right where it's needed (it's harder for people to get the best outcomes while being passive or distracted in their interactions with the coffee chain).

Overall, we get the impression that Starbucks has really thought through the technical, tactical, and strategic aspects of developing this program. We look forward to watching Odyssey evolve.