---
title: Good idea, but needs a new name
---
One of your Block & Mortar editors has spent more than a decade in the world of machine learning and artificial intelligence (ML/AI) and he's … seen a few things. Relevant to this segment, he's seen companies rush to fill the Chief Data Officer (CDO) role.  The typical sequence of events is: stakeholders hear that data is the Hot New Thing; they want a piece of the Hot New Thing; so their first step is to hire a CDO. 

(What happens next? We'll get to that in a moment.)

Not to be outdone by its older emerging-tech sibling, web3 is repeating this trend as companies hire Chief Metaverse Officers.  This is when we'd abbreviate that as "CMO" but that title is already taken by someone who heads up marketing.  But we digress.

Interestingly enough, [according to this Bloomberg piece, not all of these are full-time roles:](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-09-22/what-is-a-chief-metaverse-officer-and-do-you-need-one)

> _It’s common for now for newly named metaverse mavens to hold on to other responsibilities. Take Crate & Barrel’s Sebastian Brauer. His day job is leading product design and development, but he says he spends about 20% of his time on meta-duties like strategy, outreach, and finding ways to bridge physical and virtual domains._

Is your company pondering a Chief Metaverse Officer?  We think it's great that you're staking a claim on the web3 landscape.  We'd also suggest that you consider the following:

**1/ The rest of the executive team should develop a solid understanding of what a metaverse is and what it can do _before_ opening up that new C-level role.**  Yes, you'd want this person to take the reins of your web3 efforts and guide the company on what to do.  But you don't want to throw them into an office and say _"we don't even know what this stuff is but come back when we've been metaverse'd kthxbye"_  as you close the door.

This is the big takeaway lesson from ML/AI, and it pairs with the "what happens next?" that we mentioned earlier.  If you speak with enough CDOs, Heads of AI, and people with similar titles, you'll note a common refrain: _"The company hired me years too soon and I had to spend far too much time laying down the basic groundwork. They did not position this role for success."_  You  don't want your Chief Metaverse Officer to say that, so have a think before carving out that role.

**2/ Ease into it.** Crate & Barrel's "20% time" executive may raise eyebrows – companies typically prefer that people be completely focused on a single job, especially when they sit that high in the org chart – but we see the part-time Chief Metaverse Officer as a smart approach.  It reflects that the company's web3 efforts are still in an experimental stage.

Hiring from within (or working with a consultant as a fractional executive) allows you to skip several months of recruiting for a full-time role.  It also provides the person a safety net: in the event the company cancels its web3 plans, the Chief Metaverse Officer isn't completely out of a job.  They can reallocate that 20% of their time and keep moving. 

**3/ Expand the title.**  "Metaverse" is just a fraction of web3 today, and will likely become an even smaller part as new technologies move under the web3 umbrella.  Calling this role the Chief Metaverse Officer is like calling your head of data a "Chief Database Officer."  Sure, you store data in a database, but such a title would skip over all that valuable analysis and predictive modeling.

We'd suggest naming the role to reflect your wider ambitions.  There's no need to limit this person, and their soon-to-be-team, to just metaverse activities.