---
title: In-App NFTs
---
If you want to build applications for iDevices, you have to first register with Apple's developer program.  That program's rules define what your app is allowed to do while running on a device.

Last week, Apple [made a little note about NFTs in section 3.1.1](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=xk8d7p8c) of those rules (emphasis added):

> _Apps may use in-app purchase to sell and sell services related to non-fungible tokens (NFTs), such as minting, listing, and transferring. Apps may allow users to view their own NFTs,_ **_provided that NFT ownership does not unlock features or functionality within the app_**_. Apps may allow users to browse NFT collections owned by others, provided that the apps may not include buttons, external links, or other calls to action that direct customers to purchasing mechanisms other than in-app purchase._

(For more coverage of Apple's rule update, check out coverage on [TechCrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2022/10/25/apple-cracks-down-on-nft-functionality-social-post-boosts-with-app-store-rules/), [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/oct/25/apple-again-accused-being-anticompetitive-changes-nft-rules), and [Gizmodo](https://gizmodo.com/apple-app-store-nft-1849698953).)

The section we've put in bold describes _token-gating._  An NFT represents an item that can only be held by one person at a time, so it's about the same as an access pass.  Token-gating has already been used for event tickets and loyalty cards.  It's hardly a stretch to imagine how it could be useful to unlock features in an app.

Is it OK for Apple to throw water on the NFT party like this?  The answer is … _it's complicated._  Because this isn't just about NFTs.  It also involves marketplace dynamics.  Consider:

*   A marketplace is a space that connects different parties.  
    
*   The App Store is a marketplace that connects iDevice application developers to iDevice owners.
    
*   Apple is the middleman that runs that marketplace, and it takes compensation as part of performing that role.
    

(Just a side note: the textbook definition of a marketplace is that it makes it _easier_ for the parties to interact.  The App Store is the _only_ place for these parties to interact, if they do so through a native iOS app.  So that complicates things.  We won't go into detail about the various lawsuits app developers have filed against Apple because of this.  Just know that [middlemen don't always have the best reputation](https://www.oreilly.com/radar/building-a-better-middleman/).)

**Maybe Section 3.1.1 is just a clarification?**  Apple charges app developers a modest annual fee to be part of the program, sure.  It also charges consumers considerably more, for the privilege of buying iDevices.  But Apple gets the developers a second time when it takes a cut – usually, 30% – of any in-app purchases.  Based on the updated rule, Apple sees token-gating in apps as a way for developers to side-step that 30% haircut.  So 3.1.1 may just be business as usual, with extra wording specifically for the web3 era.

**Maybe this is about getting a piece of that sweet, sweet crypto pie?**  Based on our reading of Section 3.1.1, it looks like Apple will permit token-gating so long as the NFTs were acquired through in-app purchase.  If so, taking a percentage of an NFT's purchase price can add up.  Especially if the exchange rates shift back to more crypto-friendly values, where an NFT's listing price in tokens would represent a greater amount of fiat currency.

**Maybe this is about something else altogether?**  Apple already lets some apps bypass in-app purchases.  Sort of.  You can login to the website of a newspaper or other service provider, pay them directly for a subscription, and then use those same login credentials to access special subscriber-only areas inside the associated  iApp.  (Or, if you're Roblox, you can just … [run an entire game store within your iOS app](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2021/05/15/the-apple-trial-has-made-roblox-nervous-enough-to-make-weirdly-specific-changes/) and Apple seems fine with that.) 

If an NFT represents a record of a purchase etched into a blockchain, and a website login represents a record of a purchase stored in some service's database, it seems odd that Apple would treat them differently. That leads us to ask whether the company has grand cryptocurrency plans of its own, and Section 3.1.1 is the first step.  This seems far-fetched, though.

**Will Apple back down?**  Of all the ink ("pixels?") spilled over Section 3.1.1, we haven't seen anything positive.  But it's unlikely that Apple will reverse the rule.  It's not the sort of company to announce an unpopular change, experience backlash, then claim it was made in error.  [That's totally PayPal's turf](https://www.forbes.com/sites/emilymason/2022/10/27/after-paypal-revokes-controversial-misinformation-policy-major-concerns-remain-over-2500-fine/).