---
title: Diet web3
---
The term "web 2.5" describes services that are very close to web3 in concept, but which obscure or outright omit the blockchain backend.  In some ways this is considered a smooth on-ramp to the full web3 experience.  It's also a subtle way to label the competition as old-hat.  But between environmental concerns and the sharp drop in cryptocurrency prices – affectionately dubbed "crypto winter" – the web3 label can be more of a blessing than a curse.

All of this is to say that Roblox, a metaverse property some put squarely in the web 2.5 camp, is [attracting commercial interest precisely because it is blockchain-free](https://www.theblock.co/post/180530/roblox-hollywoods-metaverse-safe-space-as-stars-retreat-from-crypto-winter):

> _Across the board, major corporations are fishing for ways to engage with the metaverse. But sinking crypto prices and values for NFTs, when coupled with a string of celebrity endorsements gone wrong, have ratcheted up the level of scrutiny and hesitancy surrounding new projects, causing investment into blockchain-related ventures to shrink. Meanwhile digital platforms like Fortnite, Minecraft and Roblox — with tens of millions of daily users that serve as functioning versions of the metaverse in many people’s eyes — are viewed as relatively innocuous virtual spaces, where companies can safely experiment with the commercial possibilities of web3,_

The take-home lesson here isn't that "the technology is unimportant."  Instead, we see it as "focus on the technology as it relates to your goals."   And for many businesses, the plain and simple goal is to engage with people.  Existing customers, potential new customers, either way.  If people are hanging out in off-chain metaverse properties like Roblox and Fortnite, that's where the brands' marketing teams will set up shop.  It's that simple.