---
title: No refunds, bro! (Maybe)
---
The crypto world of decentralized finance (DeFi) is similar to the foreign exchange (FX) trading you know and love from Wall Street: the various currencies all hold different values relative to one another, and you can make money when those instruments' values change.

That leads us to two key points:

1.  **Financial markets are the penultimate real-time feedback loop.**  There's a direct connection between your decision or action (placing a trade) and its outcome (gaining or losing money).  This makes it easier to quantify the impact of your decisions.
    
2.  **Some areas of trading focus on _arbitrage opportunities,_** which is an industry term for "capitalizing on temporary price anomalies."  
    

Both of those points were top of mind last week, when crypto exchange [Coinbase encountered a "third-party technical issue" and temporarily listed the Georgian Lari (GEL) at the incorrect price](https://blockworks.co/coinbase-users-across-georgia-milk-price-bug-for-100x-profit/).  

The word "incorrect" is doing some heavy lifting there, since the price was off by a couple of decimal points.

Traders noticed this and went into action:

> _In late August, prices for cryptos denominated in Georgia’s national currency had been rated at GEL 290 instead of GEL 2.90. The missed decimal point had been due to a ‘third-party technical issue,'” a Coinbase spokesperson told Blockworks.  
>   
> Some trades, which should’ve netted around $150, were executed on Coinbase for $15,000, with proceeds withdrawn to personal bank accounts, users told Blockworks._

And before you tell us that fifteen grand isn't _that_ much money, please consider:

> _The average salary in Georgia is around $4,200 per year, meaning certain Coinbase users profited more than three times their national average._

(Some of you may still tell us that having an extra three years' cash in the bank is no big deal to you.  Fair enough.  We will happily re-home any surplus money you have lying around…)

Coinbase, no surprise, wants the money back.  And some of the traders' banks have frozen their accounts – not on Coinbase's behalf, but because those abnormally large deposits triggered fraud alerts.  So the money is in limbo.  Sort of.

This may remind you that crypto exchange [Crypto.com](http://Crypto.com) [recently sent several million dollars to the wrong wallet address](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/digital-escapism-case-law-pioneers-and-cant-be-evil-nft-licenses#but-we-thought-crypto-was-all-no-take-backs).  These are two different issues – [Crypto.com](http://Crypto.com) sent someone money by mistake, whereas Coinbase mispriced an instrument and left itself open to arbitrage – but both touch on the core tenet of crypto that _your mistakes belong to you and you alone_. This is part of why, among the hardcore crypto traders, getting scammed is just part of the game and you're supposed to roll with it.

This raises the question of just how far the "your transactions are your responsibility" mantra goes.  Does it cover technical glitches that have nothing to do with wallet address typos and phishing scams? We can turn to traditional finance (TradFi) for ideas:

On the one hand, TradFi exchanges certainly encounter problem trades.  Consider the automated systems that snap up shares for pennies during a flash crash (a sudden, sharp drop in share prices).  Exchanges typically "bust" – undo – those trades because they were clearly not made in good faith.  _No, XYZ Corp shares did not really fall from $100 to $1 in two seconds. That was a technical glitch, not a genuine arbitrage opportunity._  And because the exchange serves as the clearinghouse for trades, it can make sure the money never actually changes hands.  So there's nothing to claw back.

On the other hand, exchanges will sometimes uphold trades that were made due to _participant error_.  Consider Knight Capital's 2012 meltdown, in which [a software problem led the market-maker to a $440 million loss](https://www.henricodolfing.com/2019/06/project-failure-case-study-knight-capital.html) due to overly aggressive buying and selling.  The exchange chose to honor those trades because Knight's actions – selling low and buying high – represented very attractive deals to their counterparties, but the prices were still within reason.

It's not clear what action Coinbase will take to reclaim the money, nor how that will turn out.  What we expect, though, is that we'll see more of this culture clash – Your Mistake Is Your Problem versus Honest Mistakes Should Get A Do-Over – as the crypto space grows.   So maybe we'll run a regular segment called _No Refunds, Bro™_ …? 

(Oh, and for those who asked: compared to the stock market, the ultimate real-time feedback loop is stand-up comedy.  Don't believe us?  Hit the stage on an open-mic night and report back.  We'll wait.)