---
title: So which one will be known as the dive bar?
---
The world is still sorting out what counts as a "metaverse" and what it's good for, but metaverse properties are each starting to find their role and vibe. This is important for three reasons:

1.  While some properties will certainly _want_ to become The Everything Place, they know deep down that **they'll develop a reputation for fulfilling a particular consumer interest and need.** This is the same with restaurants and bars: you can't be the sports bar _and_ the upscale wine bar _and_ the dive bar all at once.
    
2.  If you know that you're going to become The Place for some Specific Thing, you want to **proactively choose your Specific Thing.** There is no empirically "right" or "wrong" answer, but you have to pick one. You don't want to be known as the dive bar of metaverse properties? Your setup, operations, and advertising should reflect that.
    

(No, we didn't miscount. We'll get to the third reason in just a moment.)

Consider the big names in the metaverse properties. Roblox and Fortnite? People go here for events, like games or concerts. Horizon Worlds? This is where you pretend to pay attention to work meetings. The Sandbox? It's feeling pretty retail-focused thus far.

All of that leads to:

3.  **Other niches or roles will certainly shake out over time.** The larger, established players will genuinely miss some (cue _The Innovator's Dilemma_) and they'll pretend to miss others (note how the big web2 players get squeamish around adult content). Those new niches will leave room for upstart and specialty players to find their space.
    

All of this is to say: while Otherside has yet to officially launch, parent company Yuga Labs is dropping some hints (some fields might call it "telegraphing their moves") as being The Place for Celebrities. That may even narrow to The Go-To Venue For Celebrities With BAYC NFTs, when you consider that [Snoop Dogg and Eminem performed in Otherside, as their BAYC characters, at the recent MTV Video Music Awards](https://www.theblock.co/post/166241/mtv-awards-feature-snoop-dogg-and-eminem-as-bored-apes-first-metaverse-category).

This is when you might ask whether we took this philosophical detour just to mention Eminem and The S N double-O P in a newsletter. The answer is, no. We took this detour to ask: if MTV is hosting a Video Music Awards show … does that mean they're actually showing music videos again? Feels like it's been a while.