---
title: Watch those bad habits
---
Big-Corporate-Speak can be rather opaque, and Management Consultantese is an especially frustrating dialect. So we understand why someone would [describe a line from a McKinsey & Company interview as "business dude lorem ipsum."](https://twitter.com/cwarzel/status/1562485228324528128)

While the tweet was a good laugh, we actually enjoyed [the full interview](https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/growth-marketing-and-sales/our-insights/building-the-next-big-experiences). Yes, the quote highlighted by the tweet definitely raised an eyebrow. But the guest – Brian Solis, Salesforce global innovation evangelist – struck us as someone who has been thinking very hard about web3.

Consider part of his response to the question "How should businesses approach the metaverse?":

> _\[T\]here’s a disconnect between the strategy, the intention, and the ultimate user experience. It’s okay to market. It’s okay to brand. And it’s okay to deliver products within these networks because that’s what a business does. But do so in a way that adds value, that respects the rules and the culture of any one of those communities, so you become a participant in those communities._

We wholeheartedly agree. While we all begin our journey with our web2 knowledge, we'd do well to remember that _web2 is not web3_. Let's be mindful of trying to shoehorn old habits to this new world, shall we? Doubly so when you consider that norms, some of which run contrary to existing business practices, have already taken shape.

That Solis specifically mentions marketing here is telling. Marketing and advertising loom large in web2, and not always in the most positive light. The intrusive web2 marketing practices that rely on building lists, identifying specific individuals, and <strike>pestering targeting</strike> directly contacting them flies in the face of web3's ethos of pseudonymity. In web3, fans let _you_ know that they're interested. Not the other way around.

One could argue that this active, customer-driven idea of web3 brand affinity fandom is stronger than its passive, one-sided web2 cousin. To get there, marketers will have to embrace this world in which they derive greater benefit but have less control. And they may have some trouble letting go. (For reference, consider how brands had to adjust to social media: they would have to interact with consumers in the public eye, and they no longer had the loudest voice in the room.)

To the marketers who expect to treat web3 as web2, redux, we ask that you reflect on Brian Solis's point. It'll pay off in the long run.