---
title: Edible adverts
---
(Maybe we'll call them _"adibles?"_ Maybe? Yes. We're going with adibles. Hang on a sec, we're looping in our legal team to formalize this one.)

Speaking of marketing …

You call it a "blank space." We imagine that marketers see it as a "missed revenue opportunity." Why else would they plaster ads all over walls, websites, smartphone screens, and now … candy?

No, seriously. We don't mean the age-old practice of candy manufacturers stamping their own logo into a chocolate bar. We mean running _someone else's logo_ on their product.

Remember last year when Universal Music Group launched Kingship, a virtual band made of Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) characters? Kingship apparently needed to raise more awareness so they [partnered with Mars, the parent company of M&Ms, to print their BAYC characters on the candies](https://decrypt.co/108142/bored-apes-melt-in-your-mouth-mms-mars-nft-candy). Mars was all too happy to take part:

> \*"Consumers' expectations for what they want from their favorite brands \[have\] shifted, and at Mars, we know we need to be more innovative than ever with such a culturally famous brand like M&M's," said Mars Wrigley Global Vice President Jane Hwang, in a release.\*

(Is anyone else feeling a strong ["Oreo CEO" sketch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMkYw4dp_NI) vibe there? No? Just us?)

It's easy to make fun, but is this Kingship-M&Ms relationship any different from a movie tie-in? We think not. Only a small part of that counts as "web3" (we'll get to that in a moment); the rest is simply Putting Someone's Logo On Something.

This Kingship move demonstrates why business-minded people would buy NFTs in the first place: those "silly ape JPEGs" come with built-in notoriety. Consumers recognize the BAYC artwork style and they certainly talk about the images. The mere act of using one in your business will get you some attention. (Case in point: we're writing about it right now …) It's sort of like how some independent hotels will pay to wear Famous Hotel Brand's logo: customers recognize the name and that helps the property rise above the infamous "discovery problem."

Better still (and this is the aforementioned web3 connection) Kingship is using this to drive people to its loyalty program:

> _The band has also released its own NFT “key cards” that provide exclusive benefits and access to holders. NFT owners were given early access to purchase the \[limited edition\] M&M’s candy._

It may be too late to buy a Kingship NFT and get your M&Ms, but who knows what they'll offer token-holders next time? This builds a buzz, which may just drive adoption.

The takeaway lesson here is: if you have printable surface area on your foods, contact some NFT holders – well, those with commercial rights – and ink a deal. Candy bars and cookies? Good. Ground meat? Bad. Pasta? Maybe if you get creative, sure.