---
title: The transformation of Time
---
When it comes to emerging technologies, you usually see smaller companies dive in very early while the larger ones hold off until the Hot New Thing has grown and matured.  Their wait-and-see approach shifts from "dismissive eye-roll" to "mildly curious investigation" to "a frantic game of catch-up, masked with a light scent of _No, We Were Always Here, Why Do You Ask?_"

(For a deeper look into this phenomenon, we highly recommend Clayton Christensen's book _The Innovator's Dilemma_ as well as _The Diffusion of Innovations_ by Everett Rogers.  Plenty of startup founders have thoughtlessly flogged the former's notion of "disruption" as a rallying cry, but we assure you, it is a much more insightful read than that crowd may let on.)

So it's noteworthy when a larger, established, more mature player is an early adopter of a new technology.  The publisher Time is a case in point.  They've gone all-in on web3, from accepting cryptocurrencies for subscriptions to [issuing a series of NFTs called TIMEPieces, which serve as access passes to its eponymous publication](https://www.cnbc.com/2022/07/17/99-year-old-publisher-time-is-leading-legacy-media-into-the-nft-future.html).  And continuing down the path of NFTs with Benefits, token-holders get "unlimited access to TIME content, as well as exclusive invitations to both virtual and in-person events."

Time isn't just dipping their toes into web3.  All of this is part of a larger strategy.  Keith Grossman, Time's  president, has done his homework on this space and is rethinking the company through a web3 lens:

> _“And that’s when everything clicked. \[...\] I said that within 30 days, we would start accepting cryptocurrency for digital payments. Today we accept 33 cryptocurrencies for digital subscriptions. ... And then I said within six months, we will figure out how to use a token and a blockchain to change the relationship of a consumer with our brand."_

This is especially noteworthy in light of how slowly the print media field has adopted technology in the past.  Remember early news websites, the ones that tried to simply recreate the print experience through a browser?  Those publishers were running _on_ the web but not really _embracing_ what it could do for them.

For any exec who is thinking about how web3 could impact or outright transform their business, we recommend keeping an eye on Keith Grossman and his work on Time's journey.  

(And, yes, obligatory self-promotion: your Block & Mortar editors are putting the finishing touches on our own workshops and coaching for leadership teams.  Want to see how to apply web3 to your business?  You can [sign up here and we'll notify you](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf4UEgCDQPw7Vfj8zOYFGaeShaPmnn-v0Ku2Dp2pIHe7qwt0A/viewform) when it's ready.)