---
title: It's like an IPO for a country.  Kinda.
---
Given the number of governments that are trying to regulate crypto, or that are still in the early  planning stages of their digital currency, it's interesting to see one go all-in: the [Central African Republic (CAR) is outright issuing its own Sango Coin crypto tokens](https://news.bitcoin.com/the-central-african-republic-says-sale-of-210-million-sango-crypto-tokens-to-commence-in-late-july/). 

And while Sango Coins are tokens of the fungible variety, not NFTs, they still come with added benefits.  Nonresidents who buy Sango tokens get a plot in the country's metaverse, have the option to purchase real-world land in the country, and may even attain CAR citizenship.

This may look like a publicity stunt but we sense a method to the madness.  Countries, just like corporations and individuals, sometimes need more money than they have on-hand.  In order to close those budgetary gaps they can:

*   **Sell some property.**  They get cash, sure, but they lose the property.  This is unpleasant if they'd prefer to hold on to it, or simply impossible if it is key to their day-to-day operations.
    
*   **Apply for loans or issue bonds.**  Taking on debt means betting on their ability to repay the money. They don't relinquish any property up-front, but could lose it in the event of a default.  
    
*   **Issue shares of stock.** They get money now, in exchange for some flavor of future benefits to the buyer… but they don't really have to "repay" the money in the traditional sense.  
    

At the risk of falling into the "is a crypto token a security?" debate – the answer is obvious: _"maybe?"_ –  it's hard to look at a program like Sango Coin and _not_ see it as a form of stock-like fundraising. People give CAR fiat currency in exchange for the tokens, CAR offers them benefits in return.  And it behooves the token buyers to support and hype up the country, because that improves the future resale value of their tokens.  

Compared to a loan or a bond, token holders get "repaid" when they sell their coins. The buyer in that case may even be CAR itself should it conduct a buyback to, in so many words, "go private."  All the while, CAR avoids eye-watering interest rates and the risk of default that would accompany a traditional loan. 

(Why would a country worry about interest rates and default risk?  We're not sure. It's not as though wealthy nations have ever saddled the developing world with sketchy debt that left them with multiple generations of ever-deepening economic distress. Nope. Never happened. Nothing to see here. Move along.)