---
title: "Scam O'Clock™: Premint edition"
---
Similar to Things Go Wrong™, we – perhaps, foolishly? – did not expect Scam O'Clock™ to make a repeat appearance.  At least not so soon.  But here we are.  We'll leave it up to readers to keep track of which segment appears more often.

Crypto transactions work in a _push_ fashion – someone sends tokens to an address – rather than _pull_.  Because no one can pull tokens out of your wallet, then, thieves need to trick you into sending your tokens to the wrong place.  Or they con you into granting them access to your wallet, such that they can initiate the transfer on their own.  It's all about getting you to click a poisoned link, or to share your keys, which is why these scams typically start with someone contacting you.

Maybe a thief wants your specific NFT, so they try to contact you directly.  Or they want to steal pieces from a given collection, so they hack that group's Instagram account or Discord server.  Since messages from that trusted source carry an air of legitimacy, NFT holders are more likely to drop their guard and click the (unbeknownst to them, tainted) link. If approaching specific NFT owners is akin to picking someone's pocket, then going after a whole collection this way is like pulling off a bank heist.

Continuing that analogy, hacking a central service is equivalent to thieves infiltrating the bank's headquarters and posing as key employees.

All of this is to explain why last week's infiltration of Premint is such a big deal.  NFT artists often turn to Premint to raise awareness and build community in advance of their upcoming release.  By hacking Premint, would-be thieves could target a much wider group of NFT holders. (Anyone who browses the site likely owns some NFTs already.)  Not to mention, because of all the FOMO and opportunism in web3, people can be quick to click a link that reads "free NFTs."

Sadly, we know this will not be the last Scam O'Clock™ segment.  Web3 is still in its early, lawless days.  And as thieves cast wider nets, we expect to see more attacks on centralized services. 

As we've noted before, there's no such thing as perfect security.  But you can protect yourself by using [a hardware ("cold") wallet](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/glossary/wallet) and by treating any stray links with suspicion.  The [folks at NFTevening offer another useful tactic](https://nftevening.com/premint-hacked-dont-click-any-links/) to keep your crypto tokens safe:

> _Ultimately, it’s always safer to use a crypto burner wallet to avoid situations like this. Essentially, a burner wallet is a temporary crypto wallet that you use purely for minting NFTs or making any dApp transactions. This wallet will only have the minimum amount you need to mint an NFT or pay for gas. This way, even if someone hacks your burner wallet, your primary assets will remain safe._

(For a little advanced reading, this [Ledger article on "blind signing"](https://www.ledger.com/academy/cryptos-greatest-weakness-blind-signing-explained) sheds more light on why burner wallets are so important for crypto safety.)