---
title: “We'll call it the Genius … Space? Maybe?”
---
When we first came across [Solana Spaces](https://twitter.com/solanaspaces/status/1548021440972087297), we thought it would be another metaverse implementation to compete with the likes of Otherside and The Sandbox.  So we did a double-take when we noticed that this was supposedly located in real-world (_"meat-verse?"_ Maybe? We'll workshop it?) NYC.  

Yes, go ahead, you're welcome to make a joke about how everything crypto should be online.  And when you're done laughing, take another look.  Solana describes Spaces as:

> _\[...\] everyone’s first crypto friend._
> 
> _Inside, you’ll learn how Solana works, what Web3 is. We’ll set you up with a wallet and your first NFTs, and guide you through your first on chain transactions._
> 
> _There’s more. We also designed Spaces to be cultural centers, embassies for Solana._
> 
> _We’ll be an event host, a launchpad, and a purveyor of Solana culture – including a whole new set of merch, and frequent limited edition collaborations with brands in and outside of crypto._

It's easy to see web3 as an online-only affair.  And maybe there's some truth to that.  But these technologies will be used by people in the real world, and many of those people could use additional on-boarding and guidance in order to make the most of what this new world has to offer.  

We salute anyone who is doing their part to put web3 into plain language.  (That's why we created this newsletter!) Especially since crypto's UI/UX still leaves so much to be desired.  If web3 is to gain wider traction, the field needs to do _something_ to balance out the tales of Scam O'Clock™ and "oh yeh you sent tokens to the wrong address so they're gone forever."

Don't believe us?  We invite you to take another look at the mock-up image in that Solana Spaces tweet thread.  Don't you get a distinct … vibe?  Like the urge to buy an expensive toy?  Spaces has the potential to be the Apple Store (including the Genius Bar) for a certain slice of web3.  Granted, we expect they'll focus on Solana-based technologies.  Which is only fair.  But we also expect that people will come away with generally-applicable web3 knowledge, and that can only help the space to grow and mature.