---
title: Phygital fitness
---
_(Editor's note: If you think this section's title makes for a terrible joke … you should see the ones we rejected.)_

It's often said that the metaverse is all about bringing the real world into the digital.  Maybe it's more about defining the overlap between the two?

Enter the term _phygital,_ a blend of atoms and bits.  (Sharp-eyed readers may recognize the "atoms-versus-bits" terminology from Chris Anderson's _Free_.  We'll come back to that in a moment.)  

Part of metaverse life involves decorating your digital self, or your _avatar_.  Maybe you're creating a pixelated version of yourself.  Your avatar could also represent a completely different identity.  Whatever the case, you want this digital being to dress the part.  Fashion houses were early to pick up on this desire to personalize one's online representation, and they adapted their real-world goods into wearables for avatars and NFTs characters.  

Why should clothing companies get all the fun? [Byredo and Rtfkt have paired up to give your avatars custom perfumes (called "auras")](https://www.voguebusiness.com/technology/a-perfume-in-the-metaverse-byredo-and-rtftk-bet-on-visual-aura) that are digital twins of real-world counterparts:  

> _Similar to the co-branded Nike and Rtfkt Cryptokicks sneakers, collectors will be able to create custom scents by combining the digital ingredients that can then be forged (meaning physically produced), at up to 2,000 scents. Through NFTs, people can combine two of the ingredients to “mix together, like an alchemist, like potions in video games,” says Rtfkt cofounder Benoit Pagotto. The physical bottles will then be produced and individually numbered and identified with an NFC tag connecting it to its NFT, similar to the upcoming Cryptokicks sneakers._

By the by, you may want to check out _Free_ if you haven't already done so.  Author Chris Anderson explores how business models change when companies can suddenly ship digital goods instead of just the physical variety.  Spoiler alert: a lot happens when the marginal cost of delivery drops to (as good as) zero.

Don't let the book's 2009 publication date fool you.  One of your Block & Mortar editors reviews it now and again as a refresher.  If you see the introduction of web3 – be it for metaverse properties or blockchain-based tokens – as the _re_\-digitization of the world, well, you may want to take a (re)read yourself.