---
title: Setting the stage
---
It's been one hell of a week for crypto, right?  

Sort of.  Depends on how you define "crypto."  

The term is often used as a catch-all, which can muddy things.  As your Block & Mortar editors explore business use cases for this domain, we find it easier to navigate if we split "crypto" into three layers: the underlying blockchain technology; the financialized tokens of crypto**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">currencies</span>** and DeFi; and other token applications such as NFTs and DAOs.  Disturbances in one layer don't necessarily invalidate the business potential for the other two.  Something to keep in mind as you follow the news.

That doesn't mean we can ignore what's happening in DeFi right now.  [It's been just a few weeks since TerraUSD/Luna fell apart](https://newsletter.blockandmortar.xyz/archive/what-the-hell-just-happened/).  Bitcoin's price continues its free-fall.  And now Celsius and Three Arrows Capital (3AC) are hurting.  

For that last point, it helps to look at the big picture:

* **Success in trading is ultimately about developing a healthy respect for risk.**  Risk is your exposure to – that is, how much you're standing in the path of – oncoming events. 
* **Success in risk management is ultimately about understanding complexity.** Complexity is a special kind of widespread interconnectedness. An incident at _Point A_ spreads to _Points G_ and _H_, leading to a cascading failure from _N_ through _Z_.  
* **Connectivity limits visibility.**  In a complex system, there are too many connections for a person to understand the entire system. There are plenty of dark corners for problems to hide.
* **A catastrophe is greater than the sum of its parts.** There is rarely a single cause to a catastrophic incident. You need several smaller problems, through a mix of unfortunate timing and unexpected pathways, to collide. 

All of this is to say: if you want to understand the recent DeFi hell that is centered on Celsius and 3AC, it helps to see it all through the lenses of "risk" and "interconnectedness."

A special report from our friend Shane Glynn explains: