---
title: "Things Go Wrong™ : Terraform Labs, Celsius, Three Arrows Capital, and Systemic Risk"
---
_(This section was written by Shane Glynn.  Some of you may know him as the guy who reviews our newsletter drafts.  He's also an experienced attorney who has spent the past few years focused on crypto.)_

One way to view the last thirteen years of cryptocurrency is that the industry is speedrunning the [400 year history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_East_India_Company) of modern trading firms. Along the way, the field is creating new innovations and replaying some of the same pitfalls that modern finance discovered in the past. 

The choice to ignore financial history represents both the good and the bad of "first principles thinking."   The Good?  You get extremely interesting innovation, because you try some stuff that current market participants think won’t work (but they've never bothered to test).  The Bad? You fall into some very obvious traps, because you try stuff that current market participants think won’t work (because they've already done it and it failed).  

The most recent pitfall discovered by the crypto industry is global systemic risk.  This concept is well known to anyone who traded securities, or owned a house, or had a bank account in 2008. Yet here it is somehow unfamiliar. 

The last five weeks in crypto have felt like a year:

* 09 May: The Terraform Labs ecosystem, primarily composed of the Luna token and the UST stablecoin, [collapsed and wiped out $50B of notional value](https://www.coindesk.com/learn/the-fall-of-terra-a-timeline-of-the-meteoric-rise-and-crash-of-ust-and-luna/).  
* 11 June: The exchange rate between Ether (ETH) and Lido staked Ether (stETH) dropped from its historical 1:1 ratio to 1:0.95, while trading liquidity on the pair decreased. 
* 13 June: The Celsius Network [halted customer withdrawals](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2022/06/cryptocurrency-plunges-as-crypto-bank-celsius-suspends-withdrawals/) and reportedly routed funds to collateralize large illiquid loans. As of June 16, they've bought themselves some time and hired restructuring advisers. 
* 16 June: Three Arrows Capital (3AC), a multibillion-dollar prop trading firm that also made VC investments,[ reportedly missed margin calls and had several hundreds of millions of dollars in positions liquidated](https://fortune.com/2022/06/16/crypto-crash-hedge-fund-three-arrows-capital-insolvency-rumors-novogratz/).

These are interesting events in isolation, yes. What is even more interesting, from the perspective of financial systems, is how they are interrelated: 

* **Celsius and 3AC had substantial exposure to the Terraform Labs ecosystem.** Celsius has a reported 9-figure position in UST, while 3AC had reported significant positions in both UST and Luna. 
* **Celsius and 3AC had substantial exposure to stETH** and both reportedly liquidated significant stETH positions at a loss. 
* **Celsius is [a significant source of capital](https://celsius.network/institutions) across decentralized finance platforms. **Their reallocation of assets contributed to a drop in liquidity across the industry. 
* **3AC is a major investor in cryptocurrency companies** and is also reported to be a major borrower of crypto assets from exchanges and other trading entities. 

All of these interrelationships, combined with a lack of transparency for off-chain debt obligations, have resulted in circumstances where many parties are unsure about the solvency of their financial counterparties.

In one sense, the problem could be described as many trading companies having undefined financial exposure to each other.  This same set of circumstances led to the collapse of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers in 2008. 

In another sense, part of 3AC's problems allegedly involved them borrowing from many other firms … without those firms understanding the cross-party risk.  This is similar to the issues that Archegos had with [Credit Suisse](https://www.scmp.com/business/banking-finance/article/3127487/investment-banks-warn-significant-losses-following-margin), [Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-markets-blocktrades/large-block-trades-tied-to-archegos-raise-worries-about-trading-this-week-idUSKBN2BK0OR). 

That's all well and good; but looking backward works best when it helps us plan our moves forward.  What can we learn from this? 

I’d offer two positive conclusions and one area for improvement. 

* **On the positive side, credit and swap mechanisms that are entirely on-chain and driven by smart contracts have weathered the financial crunch surprisingly well.** Products like Curve, Uniswap, and DYDX continued to function under significant performance stress. 
* **Similarly, centralized exchanges like FTX that use a fairly strict programmatic liquidation engine were able to provide an orderly market** during the last month.  
* **The notable failures involved centralized firms that relied on personal relationships and margin calls made via phone.** Around here we like to say that "everything old is new again."  It seems crypto managed to import the old-boys network – complete with all of the ugly failure modes that allow insiders to take on oversized risk, with occasionally disastrous consequences. 

These bullet points could indicate that, when it comes to mitigating financial risk, _people are the problem and computers can be a solution_. 

For example, [FTX’s liquidation engine](https://blog.ftx.com/blog/our-liquidation-engine/) doesn’t care about the size of your position, or if you have a personal relationship with an executive, or whether you answer your phone. The liquidation engine will slowly unwind _everyone’s_ risky positions in the same manner. This is far better than a traditional liquidation system, which all too often results in one well-connected trader's losses being absorbed by all of a firm’s counterparties. 

It should go without saying, and with a nod to Terraform Labs, that automated systems are not infallible. An improperly designed computer system can exhibit all of the problems and failures of the people who programmed it.  

But based on what we've seen these past few weeks, automated systems provide a cold, calculated consistency that has been conspicuously absent in certain parts of the crypto ecosystem.