---
title: Metaverse properties as digital escapism
---
Did you catch the [Snoop Dogg/Eminem performance at the MTV Video Music Awards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0GW3TWBlQgE&t=9s)?  It starts with the pair sitting on a couch, getting high.  The drugs kick in and they find themselves transported to the Otherside metaverse, in the form of their Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) avatars.

The clip has received its share of flak, both for the BAYC connection and for what some considered low-quality animation.  And while people will mock this as celebrity excess – _they paid good money for ape JPEGs, then paid other people to animate them_ – we think those gripes miss the larger point.  The rappers' performance really captured the metaverse spirit.

No, seriously.  Hear us out.

The point of being in a metaverse is _digital escapism._ Doing so allows you to be someone else, somewhere else. To play a role. To don a costume and parade around a virtual world with your old friends, and maybe make some new ones. 

At the risk of getting too philosophical on a Tuesday morning, this is about redefining "reality."  Similar to the way the introduction of the telephone redefined "communication," a concept that e-mail, online chat, and video calls have all redefined in turn.  With each step we're still communicating – exchanging information – but the technological advances open new opportunities.  For example, chat apps let us flip between real-time and asynchronous conversation, and we can even have multiple simultaneous conversations so long as our brains and keyboard skills can keep up.  

Similarly, this metaverse flavor of "reality" grants us new capabilities.  Consider what animation did for TV and movies. Compared to filming with real-world actors, animation allows characters to be anywhere and do anything, without a special effects budget or stunt team.  And the exaggerated facial expressions you see in The Simpsons rival any human actor, if for no other reason than "human faces simply cannot stretch that way."

Spending time in a metaverse is the latest iteration in interactive escapism.  Especially of the shared-experience variety.  Early role-playing games?  Your character was stats tracked on paper.  Quest-style video games? You're in the driver's seat, but you live in someone else's predefined body.   More recent video games maintain that first-person perspective (helping further immerse you into the story) and also allow you to design your character to look like whomever you wish – be it a mirror of your real-world body or something completely different.  Metaverses will provide all of the above, but you can mix the swashbuckling adventures with simple twists on everyday life: have a meeting, attend a concert, or go shopping.

All of which takes us back to the Snoop and Eminem performance: it showed us that dropping in on a metaverse is the digital equivalent of getting high with your friend and sharing a hallucination.  And that's just beautiful.

(Bonus: the online experience won't show up on a drug test.)