---
title: Playing the long game on NFT licenses
---
A common refrain in this newsletter is that, generally speaking, rules are a Good Thing™ for web3 adoption.  [In an August issue, we expressed that as](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/new-laws-for-digital-goods-and-keeping-track-of-web3-assets#tailor-made-laws):

> _People have a love-hate relationship with rules.  By defining boundaries, they give us a sense of certainty.  We know that action X is fine but action Y will have us standing before a judge.  And by the time we enter the courtroom, we have a rough idea of what's on the proverbial menu.  Without rules, we'd all just do whatever we want.  (And if you scale that out to "the entire population," you get the definition of anarchy.)_ 

Yes, there are plenty of people who prefer the high-risk, high-reward arena of regulatory grey areas; but for the most part, widespread adoption will rely on people having a reasonable understanding of what is permitted.

One source of that clarity is regulations, as defined by a government.  Another is in licenses, as issued by creators.  New technologies challenge rulemakers, in part, because they carve new paths that the old rules had never considered.

Given that, the team at VC investor [Andreesen Horowitz (a16z) has released the "Can't Be Evil" (CBE) licenses specifically designed for NFTs](https://a16zcrypto.com/introducing-nft-licenses/).  Quoting [a tweet thread by Miles Jennings, a16z's general counsel and head of decentralization](https://twitter.com/milesjennings/status/1564991860824674305):

> _3/ With that in mind, the CBE licenses serve three core purposes: 1) protect creators’ IP, 2) grant NFT holders a baseline of rights that are irrevocable, enforceable, and easy-to-understand 3) help creators & their communities unleash the economic potential of their projects._
> 
> \[...\]
> 
> _5/ The CBE licenses seek to extend the “Can’t be Evil” principle to NFTs by transparently codifying the rights of NFT creators, buyers and sellers, thereby making NFT ecosystems inherently more trustless._

(The CBE licenses are inspired by [CC0, which we covered just a couple of weeks ago](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/expensive-code-free-jpegs-and-coffee-nfts#if-you-love-jpegs-set-them-free).)

This is an interesting path for a16z: they are giving away the licenses (ergo, the money spent on legal wrangling) for free, which means they won't see any immediate, direct monetary benefit. 

Then again, this move can pay dividends over time as the wider NFT space grows.  If a16z invests in an NFT-related startup that has adopted one of its licenses, the VC firm is already familiar with licensing terms and knows that they've closed off certain future legal problems.  That saves money in the long run – closing off legal loopholes protects their investment – which would be well worth the cost of fronting the money to create the licenses in the first place.

a16z scores a point for playing the long game.