---
title: It all comes down to risk management
---
Most cryptocurrency tokens fluctuate in price over time. This is why so much of decentralized finance (DeFi) is a twist on the foreign exchange markets: you buy and sell different types of tokens, and if you're lucky you turn a profit on the relative price moves.

DeFi markets run 24x7, though, and traders want to close out their positions – convert all of those crypto tokens into cash – so they can go on vacation or, y'know, sleep. *"I cash out my Bitcoin on Friday to $100k, I come back on Monday and I still have that $100k in the bank. Even if the crypto markets tank over the weekend, I'm not holding crypto during that time, so I'm fine."*

The catch is that moving cash into and out of the crypto ecosystem takes days, which is too long for this scenario. *Stablecoins,* special tokens that are meant to stay in lock-step with ("pegged to") some fiat currency, fill the gap. Someone creates a stablecoin pegged to the US dollar and that token becomes a *proxy* for the dollar. A proxy that conveniently lives inside the DeFi ecosystem, where transactions can settle in minutes or even seconds.

(This is when you'll argue that fiat currencies can also fluctuate in price. This is true. But unless you're holding British Pounds in October 2022, this is hardly a worry.)

Defining a stablecoin should be simple: someone pays you a dollar, you park the dollar in a bank account, and you hand them one token. Or maybe you swap the bank account for fiat-equivalent units, like government bonds. This is a sound strategy, because the fiat money will always be there when someone wants to hand you a token in order to get their cash back.

But apparently it's too boring for some people? You've collected all this fiat currency and it's just *sitting* *there* idle. You get … *ideas* … and then you join the crowd of people who try to "improve" the already-perfect plan of "just buy some damned fiat currency and park it."

Hence why DeFi has seen so many stablecoins that aren't. Like the "algorithmic" stablecoins, which mix math and code to maintain the peg. Those [usually end in tears](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/what-the-hell-just-happened). Very expensive tears. But people keep trying. The Arguably Not Really A Stablecoin That Manages To Remain Stable Long-Term has become a kind of El Dorado in the crypto world.

We recently learned about another [Stablecoin With Moving Parts, called HomeCoin](https://www.theblock.co/post/175296/this-project-is-trying-to-perfect-the-stablecoin-by-backing-it-with-mortgages). In lieu of treasury bonds or fancy math, HomeCoin backs its tokens with … mortgages. You hand the HomeCoin company a dollar, they use that dollar to buy up a mortgage. That would make HomeCoin a slight twist on a [mortgage-backed security (MBS)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/mbs.asp). Most people learned that term around 2008, so they associate it with the mortgage meltdown, and they may look askance at HomeCoin's approach.

While we're not here to promote HomeCoin – we still prefer the Backed By Cash Equivalents kinds of stablecoins – hear us out. Outside of 2008, MBSs have proven fairly stable vehicles for diversifying exposure to risk. The lesson from the housing crisis was not so much "mortgages are bad," but "a single mortgage involves so many participants, each with their own ups and downs, that the wider mortgage space represents a complex adaptive system. And sometimes complex systems hit a snag." 2008 was the right mix of ingredients that led the system to convulse and, in some places, break.

Back to HomeCoin, using home loans to back its stablecoin. Mortgages can be fairly steady investments. Not as stable as Mountains Of Fiat Currency Sitting In A Vault – again, excluding the British Pound in October 2022 – but still more stable than a lot of other corners of DeFi.

As with so much of the financial world, it's not so much about the idea's thesis, but about where the idea breaks down. HomeCoin's long-term success will mostly depend on how the company handles risk management. So long as they choose the mortgages wisely, and they don't experience a lot of correlated loan defaults (say, due to mass layoffs triggered by a recession), then there are only so many ways for it to break.

But if it does break, well … that's the risk-reward tradeoff.
