--
title: But what kind of scam is it, exactly?
--
Where there's money, there's crime. That's probably why crime is so rampant in DeFi, where [people lost more than $700 million to scams just this October](https://thedefiant.io/exploits-double-to-3b-2022).

One common DeFi scam is the *rug pull*. This three-act play is a twist on the classic pump-and-dump:

1.  You issue a new and hype it up to boost its price.
    
2.  People buy the token, thinking that it's going to get huge.
    
3.  You stop hyping it up, run off with the funds, and the price plummets.
    

(Yes, yes, insert the obligatory joke here that *Your Average Tech Startup Is A Rug Pull In Slow Motion* …)

"Getting rugged" is almost a rite of passage in DeFi. So much so that [a cybersecurity researcher has determined that just about all of the tokens launched on DeFi exchange Uniswap are rug pulls](https://blockworks.co/are-97-of-tokens-on-uniswap-really-rug-pulls/).

There's been some debate as to whether these are *truly* rug pulls, or some other kind of scam. But getting nitpicky over the precise type of scam misses the wider point that scams are plentiful and people should be careful. This is especially true in a bull market, where people let their guard down because enthusiasm is high:

> *\[The researcher in question, Bruno\] Mazorra also pointed out the paper \[...\] was a non-peer-reviewed version of the report that had been published in a bull market. An updated, peer reviewed version of the study can be found on the Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute. “It was much easier to do rug pulls in the bull market,” he said. “If we redo this paper in the bear market, I think our hypothesis or conjecture will change completely — how a scam would be deployed would be very different.”*

And, you see, that's the thing. Where there's money, there's crime. Yes. But where money is scarce, there's different crime. We expect bear-market crypto scams will be especially nasty. Hold on to your hardware wallets and be careful where you click.
