---
title: Will you chicken out?
---
*Cat bonds* are a pretty interesting concept from the insurance field. The "cat" is short for "catastrophe." The "bond" part is a way for an insurer to pool money. If catastrophe strikes, the insurance company that issued the bond uses the money to pay out claims. The investors who pay into cat bonds are placing a bet that the catastrophe in question will not take place – in which case they get their money back, plus interest.

Great. So that's cat bonds.

Compare that to [Chicken Bonds](https://www.chickenbonds.org/blog-posts/lusd-chicken-bonds-introduction), where the "chicken" means … "chicken." And "bond" also means "bond." Kind of.

Chicken Bonds are a new concept in DeFi that blends pools of money with NFTs:

> *Chicken Bonds will not only be more engaging because of those new strategies but will also reward users with unique Dynamic NFTs - these are on-chain generative NFTs that change their visual representation based on the users actions.*
> 
> *What makes these generative NFTs unique is their dynamic nature: the NFT visual will either be an egg (while bonding), a chad chicken (after claiming the bond - “Chickening In”) or a run-away chicken (after canceling the bond - “Chicken Out”). The most chad Chicken Bonders and engaged users in the Liquity ecosystem will get the rarest NFT.*

If there's one idea DeFi has borrowed from the traditional banking sector (TradFi), it's Accepting Money From One Party To Lend It Out To Another. The balancing act with that game is to make sure that the first group doesn't want its money back before the second group has repaid you. Hence why so many opportunities in the financial space are designed to lock up deposits for some minimum amount of time.

Chicken Bonds seem to encourage the lock-up more with carrot (flashy NFTs and interest payments) than stick (hefty penalties for early withdrawal), but the result is the same: you park your money somewhere, and someone hopefully pays you extra for the privilege. And even if they don't, you at least get an NFT. Maybe you can [show it off on your fancy TV-turned-NFT-frame](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/workplace-moon-landing-nft-tvs-and-no-refunds-maybe#when-a-screen-is-more-than-just-a-screen).
