---
title: EU regulators unveil MICA and TFR
---
We went all the way to Europe for this story!  Well, we "went" in the virtual sense in that we read some [French-](https://www.lemonde.fr/pixels/article/2022/07/01/l-europe-se-dote-d-un-cadre-legal-pour-reguler-les-cryptoactifs_6133011_4408996.html) and [German-language](https://www.manager-magazin.de/finanzen/bitcoin-kaufen-und-verkaufen-eu-einigt-sich-auf-regulierung-von-kryptowaehrungen-a-2c27b046-8599-48f7-a1da-bcda71e9b4cd) news sites to understand some upcoming regulations.

(The minus side of our virtual travel: we didn't get to enjoy crepes and high-speed rail.  Plus side: we didn't get caught in any of the recent air travel snarls.)

Last week the EU put the finishing touches on two new, long-anticipated laws related to crypto: Markets in Crypto Assets (MICA) and Transfer of Funds Regulation (TFR).  These laws define boundaries around the issuance and sale of cryptocurrency tokens, capitalisation requirements for stablecoins, and information crypto exchanges must collect about their users.  

(Notably, these laws won't cover NFTs and DeFi platforms.)

This is when you might ask: why does a US-based web3 newsletter care about EU crypto laws? Especially since those laws don't take effect for another 18 months?  And our answer is: _because Europe will be a testing ground for how these kinds of regulations work out_.  Which may – just may – help guide American laws.

One common complaint in the crypto space is that there are so few laws. Sure, this encourages legal grey areas where people can make a lot of money very quickly. But it also leads to cases where someone doesn't really know where they stand until the government steps in and says: "oh hey that's against the law. Come with us, please." 

So some extra certainty could improve growth and adoption of the entire crypto sector.