---
title: Picks and shovels
---
In the early days of an emerging technology, you're always looking for signs that this New Thing will really turn into something bigger. That it will become _real_. One such indicator is a large, growing investment in the sector.   Another is watching established companies reposition themselves to align with the New Thing.

(Remember the early-day internet boom, when companies hastily added an "e-" prefix or a ".com" suffix to their name?  And what about 2010, when every business suddenly claimed it was "doing big data?"  We're talking about _that_ kind of repositioning…)

A third sign – more subtle, but perhaps more important – is an increase in the number of companies creating tools and _infrastructure_.  They're helping individual consumers and large brands stake their own claims in the new world.  One reason this is such an important indicator for an emerging technology is that it sends a message: _"we think this gold rush will be so big, we know that we'll make a ton of money just selling the picks and shovels."_  And as these tools pave the way for more people to participate, the New Thing grows.

Just this past week, we've seen three cases of companies building web3 infrastructure: 

First up, Fortnite parent Epic Games [will welcome web3 games into its marketplace](https://lesechos.fr/tech-medias/hightech/le-createur-de-fortnite-ouvre-la-porte-aux-jeux-video-web3-sur-sa-place-de-marche-1411959).  In our peer group, a couple of people have expressed disappointment that the first game, "Grit," is [created by a third-party developer](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/150444/epic-games-store-will-host-its-first-web3-game-this-year).  If you flip that around, though, you see this as Epic providing a platform for web3 game publishers.  

Second, Vietnam-based blockchain company [Ancient8 has raised $6 million to build infrastructure for play-to-earn games](https://blockworks.co/vietnams-ancient8-gets-6m-to-build-infrastructure-software-for-gamefi/) or GameFi.  (Granted, not every GameFi experience is going according to plan.  Axie Infinity, which reportedly helped people in developing nations earn a reasonable wage, [has taken a bit of a turn](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2022-06-10/axie-infinity-axs-crypto-game-promised-nft-riches-gave-ruin).  We'll see whether that spreads to other GameFi providers.)

Third, SaaS pioneer [Salesforce is building an NFT marketplace](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-08/salesforce-pilots-nft-marketplace-as-token-trading-is-down-90). Their service will cater to businesses that plan to use NFTs as tickets or VIP memberships.  Which may be why they are playing up the security angle:

> _\[Salesforce\] will provide a more-secure service for its customers who want to create and release tokens. Sales can be hosted on a brand’s own site to convey legitimacy to shoppers while Salesforce handles back-end security, contract-writing and authentication._

If you squint just right, "Salesforce handles the authentication and smart contracts" looks very much like the Dot-Com era "\[some company\] handles your store's online shopping carts."   And "Epic hosts web3 games in its store" is a twist on "a web host handles server maintenance and DNS."  

With these three companies providing the lower technology layer of web3, customer-facing businesses can focus on matters specific to their service offerings.  We look forward to seeing more infrastructure providers smooth that on-ramp.