---
title: More excitement than a close game
---
Buying an NFT can be a person's first step into web3. It can also be the first experience in handling variable-priced assets.  Prices can rise, prices can fall, and there's no telling when any of that will happen. Nor is there any guarantee that one NFT collection will keep pace with any other.

If you've worked in the financial sector, you live and breathe these concepts.  But for the DeFi novice, these can be harsh, hard-learned lessons.  

Some [buyers of NBA Top Shot NFTs are feeling this pain](https://www.theverge.com/23153620/nba-top-shot-nft-bored-ape-yacht-club).  Prices for the sports memorabilia NFTs have seen wild swings – mostly, downward – and buyers attribute this to a variety of factors.  Everything from the company minting a large number of NFTs, to servers being overloaded, to the ways Top Shot is still trying to sort out how to enhance the overall experience.

> _This difference in interaction, visibility, and supply hasn’t gone unnoticed by collectors. “So kind of the core of NFTs and collecting is you’re trusting the company or the creator to keep scarcity. And that’s what makes it appealing, right?” says \[Top Shot buyer Jesse\] Schwarz, who compared Top Shot unfavorably to Bored Ape Yacht Club in this respect. BAYC’s approach to building a community is “very calculated and still not outpacing the demand.”_

The point about "not outpacing the demand" is key if your company plans to, say, mint NFTs intended as assets for collectors.  Such assets are more likely to hold their value if they're in short supply.  And if people think that you may grow the supply in the future, they'll be more nervous about buying and holding your NFTs.  

Somewhat related, BAYC parent [Yuga Labs just closed off some code that would have allowed them to mint more Bored Ape NFTs](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/150764/yuga-labs-revokes-code-that-allowed-creation-of-infinite-bored-apes).  In doing so, Yuga Labs has assured BAYC holders that they do indeed hold items of a finite collection. Scarcity, assured. 