---
title: We read this book before it was cool
---
There's plenty of debate as to what, precisely, is "the metaverse."  (This is even [more hotly contested than "artificial intelligence,"](https://www.oreilly.com/radar/rebranding-data/) which should tell you something.)

The only widespread agreement we've seen is that no one company should be able to push _their_ definition on everyone.  And, when people say this, they usually mean That Company in particular.  The one that changed its name to be more metaversey.  You know. 

Still, maybe some voices _do_ get more of a vote?  Neal Stephenson, author of the 1992 cyberpunk novel _Snow Crash,_ coined the term "metaverse."  So one could argue that any metaverse offerings should be sized up against Stephenson's vision.

Better yet, those companies will soon be able to compare their work [to an actual implementation backed by Stephenson](https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/neal-stephenson-coined-metaverse-in-1992-now-hes-building-one/):

> _\[Stephenson and Peter Vessenes\] announced Wednesday they’re creating their own metaverse-focused blockchain called Lamina1. Vessenes will be the project’s CEO while Stephenson will serve as chairman._
> 
> _Like the visions of the metaverse popularized in the summer of 2021, before much of the corporate world began co-opting the term, Lamina1 will be centered on open metaverses with a focus on virtual- and augmented-reality integrations._

If anyone gets to use the term _"the"_ metaverse, it's him.

To us, this runs deeper than "the guy who coined the term is taking a stab at implementing the idea."  Stephenson clearly had something in mind when he came up with the metaverse concept thirty years ago.  The fact that he's having a run means that _he_ thinks present-day technology stands a chance of matching his original vision.  (How many sci-fi authors find themselves in that position?  Very few, we reckon.)

We're excited to see how this turns out.  In the meantime, we'll be re-reading our old, dog-eared copies of _Snow Crash_.  And maybe we'll flip through _The Diamond Age_ for good measure.