---
title: "Sometimes the headline says it all"
---

Granted, not all such experimentation pans out. In a case of [The Headline Is the Tweet Is The Story](https://www.maersk.com/news/articles/2022/11/29/maersk-and-ibm-to-discontinue-tradelens):

> *\[Logistics and supply chain giant\] A.P. Moller - Maersk and IBM to discontinue TradeLens, a blockchain-enabled global trade platform*

I don't have any information beyond the official notice from Maersk's website, so I'm not sure of the specific reasons this project wound down. "Supply chain management" was identified as an early use case of blockchain – it's a situation in which multiple parties need to see and modify the same data, and would prefer that no one member owns the storage thereof – so I doubt this was a case of the technology simply being a poor fit.

There are plenty of reasons why a given technology product doesn't get traction, though:

-   It simply doesn't work as advertised. In my experience, when this happens, the problem is usually in specific products or implementations. Very rare that this is an issue with an entire technology.
-   The Fancy New Thing doesn't outperform the incumbent solution in terms of speed, total cost of ownership, or any other metric of interest.
-   The Fancy New Thing wins in terms of pure performance, but switching costs – the effort to move away from the incumbent solution – is still too high. Switching costs can make for an especially tough sell when you need multiple parties, each with their own budget and internal challenges, to join up at the same time.
-   Fear, uncertainty, and doubt (FUD) obscure tangible benefits. I saw a lot of this in the early days of cloud computing, when some IT professionals simply Could. Not. Believe. that it would be viable to run mission-critical services on hardware they did not personally control. I imagine there is similar FUD for blockchain products, fueled in part by the association with recent troubles in the cryptocurrency markets.
-   You're simply too early. Sometimes the left-hand part of that S-shaped adoption curve (*The Diffusion of Innovations,* anyone?) can be a lonely place. You then get to sit on your hands waiting for others to join in.

It may be years before we learn the real reasons why the Maersk-IBM effort turned out this way.

Hell, it could be something as simple as a spat between the two companies' executives. Technology, for all its computers and code, involves far more "people" issues than one might expect.
