---
title: Closing the vault
---
We see three main reasons to buy NFTs:

1.  **Utility:** This is for what we call [NFTs With Benefits](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/nfts-with-benefits-the-changing-sands-of-time-and-investing-in-a-country#nfts-with-benefits).  Owning one means getting access to events, exclusive communities, or loyalty programs.  
    
2.  **Art Appreciation:** Digital paintings, as it were.  You enjoy [showing them off on your fancy TV-turned-picture-frame](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/workplace-moon-landing-nft-tvs-and-no-refunds-maybe#when-a-screen-is-more-than-just-a-screen).  And there's the bonus of knowing that, somewhere, there's a record that you – yes, _you_ – purchased them.
    
3.  **Speculation:**  You think prices are going to go up, and you hope to make a profit.
    

Utility and Art Appreciation holders derive most of their benefit from what the token grants them. They sell when they need to sell – to address a cashflow need, or because they no longer desire access to the asset – so while they'd _prefer_ to get a good price, they don't _have_ to.  Speculation holders, on the other hand, derive benefit from selling at a profit.  If they mistime a price drop, too bad.  

This leads us to [CNN, which – after just a little more than a year – has shut down its NFT marketplace](https://www.theverge.com/2022/10/10/23397766/vault-by-cnn-nft-shutdown-flow-rebate-rugpull):

> _You may have already forgotten about it, but Vault by CNN launched in the summer of 2021 as a marketplace for its own NFTs (non-fungible tokens) that would “offer collectors the opportunity to own a piece of history.” Sort of like NBA Top Shot except for media nerds instead of basketball nerds, it minted CNN reports of key events or artistic interpretations inspired by them, creating digital collectibles that owners could show off somehow or trade with others, like baseball cards._

While Speculation holders have certainly lost their benefit – the possibility of selling at a higher price – Utility holders suffer the burden of an _unexpected_ loss because, well, they'd been promised special access.  Though perhaps Utility holders were engaging in a form of speculation, since CNN hadn't really elaborated on what those benefits would be?

Taking a wider view, should we also worry about NBA TopShot or [Time Magazine's TIMEPieces](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/nfts-with-benefits-the-changing-sands-of-time-and-investing-in-a-country#the-transformation-of-time) collection?  It's too early to tell whether the root cause is specific to Vault, or a systemic issue in the NFTs-of-newsworthy-events space. It may take a while to determine whether CNN went too far, or whether they didn't go far enough. 

One last point to consider, if your company is thinking about developing its own NFT marketplace: _the underlying blockchain you choose matters_. The TIMEPieces collection lives on Ethereum and is sold through compatible services such as OpenSea.  TIMEPieces would live on in the unlikely event that Time, Inc were to stop supporting this collection.  By comparison, NBA TopShot and CNN Vault run on the Dapper Labs Flow blockchain.  Continued use of those collections requires Dapper to stay solvent and operating Flow.