---
title: "Things Go Wrong™: “What happened with TerraUSD and Luna?” edition"
---
TerraUSD (ticker symbol: $UST) is an algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the US dollar, through a backing token called Luna ($LUNA).  We'll spare you the deep details – explaining this to our friends gave us flashbacks of explaining 2008's collateralized debt obligations – but you'll want to keep three points in mind:

*   TerraUSD and Luna are connected.  Traders swapping $UST and $LUNA, in an attempt to profit, drives the mechanism that keeps TerraUSD's price to $1.
    
*   Unlike old-school stock exchanges, crypto's DeFi operations don't have a long history of rules and norms to lean on when things go awry.
    
*   Crypto markets run 24/7.  There's no "we can sort things out while markets are closed." When something goes wrong, you have to sort it out in real-time.
    

The weekend of 07 May, _something_ happened.  It's still not clear _what_ happened, precisely, but the stablecoin slipped its peg.  No big deal, right?  This is when all that software kicks in, the traders swap $UST and $LUNA, and we're back to parity with the US dollar.  

Instead, both TerraUSD and Luna kept moving.  Downward.  Because of how the two tokens are connected, $UST slipping its peg [led to the creation of more $LUNA tokens](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/146532/billions-of-luna-minted-as-supply-grows-20-fold-in-four-days), and the increased number of $LUNA tokens led to a decrease in the per-token price.  This was compounded by certain tokens being locked away for staking purposes, so some holders were simply stuck watching the free-fall.  And as traders crowded the proverbial door, activity halted on $LUNA's underlying blockchain.  Twice. 

By Friday, 13 May, TerraUSD had tumbled from a dollar to almost a quarter.  $LUNA had fallen from its high of almost $120 down to … well, _technically_ not zero, but so close to zero that it should have been expressed in scientific notation.   Along the way, the panic reverberated throughout the wider cryptocurrency space, [briefly taking Bitcoin and Tether on a downward slide](https://investir.lesechos.fr/actions/actualites/le-bitcoin-tente-de-reprendre-pied-apres-une-baisse-record-2016699.php). 

As of this writing, $UST is back on its feet but it's limping.  The parent organization Luna Foundation Group (LFG) injected some capital into the system, bringing $UST back to about $0.25 … but it's since drifted back down to $0.12. 

And as for what comes next, there are still more questions than answers.