---
title: And then …?
---
For one, it's not clear what will bring $UST all the way back to its one-dollar value while also bringing $LUNA's price out of the gutter.  Part of the problem is that, because of how the two tokens are connected, some proposals to save TerraUSD won't help Luna all that much.  Then there's the [trust issue](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4510634-can-terra-luna-be-salvaged), in that even a well-designed plan may not attract investors.  

Taking a wider view, there's also the uncertainty on how to handle future such crashes.  Wall Street has experienced its share of adverse events over the years – from flash crashes, to market manipulation, to full-on market meltdowns – and developed rules and norms to maintain stability going forward.  Stress tests, circuit breakers, and regulations all provide padding that keeps that world (mostly) on-track.  Crypto is a young space and is still sorting itself out. 

Given that, how could stablecoins avoid this kind of crash in the future? 

On the one hand, a key lesson from risk management is that incidents often occur when several smaller problems all happen to collide.  There's rarely a single, isolated cause.  So while it may mollify some investors to ban algorithmic stablecoins or take some other hasty, sweeping motion, that would be a blunt instrument when precision is in order.  It would serve us well to sort out precisely what factors led to the TerraUSD/Luna fallout so that we can prevent that combination from coming together in the future.

On the other hand, [algorithmic stablecoins do not have the best track record](https://cointelegraph.com/news/algorithmic-stablecoins-aren-t-really-stable-but-can-the-concept-redeem-itself).  How many more will we see before someone gets it right?  We can see why some investors would steer clear.