---
title: Whose status is it, anyway?
---
Customer loyalty programs are nothing new, but web3 does lend itself well to the idea.  As we noted last week:

> _Blockchains are ultimately tamper-resistant systems for logging events \[such as\] "customer A completed action B at time C,"  which is why companies are increasingly exploring blockchain technology for their loyalty programs.  It feels natural to model customers as wallets, loyalty points as fungible tokens, and special participation as NFTs._

From the company side, it's nice to let blockchain technology handle the heavy lifting and accounting logic.  For consumers, the big selling point of cryptocurrency tokens and NFTs is _ownership of digital assets_.  

Game developers saw this NFT use case early on: _You've spent months playing our RPG, powering up that sword/helmet/whatever.  Shouldn't you truly "own" it, and be able to sell it to someone when you're done?_  That topped-out item _looks like_ a sword or hammer, but it's really an expression of your time and effort.  Someone who doesn't want to grind through the leveling-up process will happily trade their money for your item.  

(Underground markets for in-game items have existed for ages.  Putting this on-chain is a chance for game publishers to formalize the secondary market and capture some of that revenue.)

Replace "playing a video game" with "frequenting a coffee shop" or "air travel" and this idea still works. The perks that come with that level of loyalty status constitute an asset, one that a customer developed through continuous interactions with your business.  If this status is represented by an NFT in their crypto wallet, it's entirely possible they'll want to express their ownership of that asset by … y'know … selling it.

Maybe they need some quick cash.  Maybe they're shifting away from a high-travel role, and someone moving into such a role would like all the perks of Super Mega Platinum status.  The former road warrior gets to sell their asset; the new one eases their travel burden, and the airline collects some cash from the transaction. Win-win-win.

But will the businesses see it that way?  Unlikely.

The idea of customers selling loyalty status is an uncomfortable question for many companies, because they are accustomed to holding all of the proverbial cards.  It will be tempting to simply declare status as non-transferable.  But that runs contrary to the idea of digital ownership that is core to web3.  

At best, these companies will encounter a lot of friction by forbidding customers from expressing that ownership.  At worst, they'll play a game of whack-a-mole against multiple underground markets.  

Blockchain technology allows marketplaces to spring up anywhere, and for anything.  If an item is on-chain it's best to assume that people will want to trade it. The best companies will account for this when designing their web3-based loyalty programs, and they'll develop rules that allow for transfer of status while keeping things fair for everyone involved.  They'll also develop loyalty perks that people will be less eager to sell.  In other words, these companies skip over the Napster moment of suing fans, and go straight to the iTunes era of providing an official framework for what customers want.