---
title: We only talk about DAOs when there's trouble
---
The different pieces of web3 are settling into their roles:

*   metaverse properties are gathering spots – digital amusement parks, even – sponsored by corporations
    
*   cryptocurrency tokens and DeFi are for speculation
    
*   NFTs are for art collectors, event ticketing, and loyalty programs
    
*   Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) are … nobody's really sure?
    

On the one hand, DAOs are an interesting way for groups to pool funds and make decisions.  On the other hand, every time we hear about them, it's because of legal matters.  

Case in point: [DeFi platform Ooki DAO has had a run-in with the CFTC](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-09-23/are-crypto-daos-and-governance-token-holders-safe-from-the-cftc):

> _A recent enforcement action by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission signals that the community-run projects popular in crypto known as decentralized autonomous organizations, or DAOs, are within the purview of the agency’s oversight -- as are the millions of people who hold DAO governance tokens that are used to make decisions._

This has, understandably, raised questions around what this could mean for the wider DAO space.  It's entirely possible that this case is specific to something Ooki DAO has done.  This could also become the CFTC's first foothold in claiming jurisdiction over _all_ DAOs, which has a very "Excalibur" feel to deciding who regulates what.

The CFTC is certainly getting creative in [how it plans to serve notice to Ooki DAO's members](https://twitter.com/DeFiDefenseLaw/status/1575071268000665601):

> _🚨Blockchain Regulation Update: Yesterday, the CFTC filed a declaration informing the court that it seeks to perfect service of process of a lawsuit on every voting member of Ooki DAO via its chat bot and forum posts. 🧵_
> 
> _\[...\]_
> 
> _3/ This is a stunning new development for the space because, if approved by the court, it will create legal precedent allowing regulators to claim proof of service of a legal action against every member of decentralized entity via notice to its website._

(Is this better or worse than [serving notice by airdrop](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/plotting-a-metaverse-path#special-delivery)?  You be the judge. We're not sure.)

We empathize with lawmakers to an extent. Technology moves so quickly that they can't help but to get involved after the horse is already out of the barn.  That said, showing up out of the blue to claim jurisdiction over a portion of web3 leaves everyone confused.  People who are unsure of the boundaries are less likely to test novel use cases, which ultimately slows adoption.