---
title: Marketers who understand the web3 spirit
---
We recently noted that [companies – especially their marketing teams – should be mindful of bringing web2 habits into the web3 space](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/metaverse-dive-bars-edible-adverts-and-a-little-ai#watch-those-bad-habits):  

> _The intrusive web2 marketing practices that rely on building lists, identifying specific individuals, and pestering targeting directly contacting them flies in the face of web3's ethos of pseudonymity. In web3, fans let_ **_you_** _know that they're interested. Not the other way around._
> 
> _One could argue that this active, customer-driven idea of web3 brand affinity fandom is stronger than its passive, one-sided web2 cousin. To get there, marketers will have to embrace this world in which they derive greater benefit but have less control. And they may have some trouble letting go._

It was refreshing, then, to catch [this session from the BW Marketing Whitebook Summit 2022](http://bwmarketingworld.businessworld.in/article/Amalgamation-Of-Metaverse-Brands-To-Forge-New-Stories/11-08-2022-441645/).  The five panelists – all marketing executives – explored use cases for corporate training, in-store demos, and job interviews, as well as blending real-world and metaverse experiences.  The conversation steered clear of the web2 marketing trope of using technology to simply harvest personal data. 

What really caught us was a comment from Siddhartha Butali, Chief Marketing Officer at Airasia India.  He noted that, in web3, people need to regain control over their personal data and:

> _"\[...\] trade it only if they want to, with brands that they trust. And that is going to reduce the number of brands that consumers will engage with, to only those with whom you want to share a relationship of trust. And that will get accentuated even more with the anonymity that the metaverse will offer and the kind of data streams that we'll be creating in that universe."_

(You can watch his full statement at the video's 20:50 mark.)

We're still not sure how data privacy laws will take shape, but we have a hunch that there will be a stronger push to first-party data.  Making the most of the information that people have chosen to give directly to you – as opposed to the lists you've acquired from your "trusted partners" –  would therefore become a business survival skill.  Hopefully other marketers make note of Butali's lead and start planning for that world now.