---
title: Perfect for those metaverse photo shoots
---
Emerging technologies give you a new lens through which to see your business:  "What new capabilities does this offer?  What new threats does it present?  And how will we have to adapt as a result?"

Sometimes your What We Do directly translates to The New Thing. Case in point: modeling agency Photogenics has determined that, with fashion houses offering digital goods for people to decorate their avatars … someone might need … y'know, models. 

Several models working with Photogenics have opted to [lend their face to avatars destined for metaverse projects](https://www.voguebusiness.com/technology/fashions-next-metaverse-opportunity-turning-real-models-into-digital-avatars):

> _Photogenics models are available for metaverse-based shoots, drops, wearables, events and other modelling jobs. Brands pay to licence out the avatar models for metaverse campaigns for a given period of time. Photogenics transfers an NFT with a built-in burn period, at the end of which the proof of licence expires._

A note for the modeling industry: digital twins don't age.  A model's present-day state, captured in pixels, could potentially collect money well into the future.  And as their faces change – due to age or anything else, really – they have the option to digitize their updated selves.  Imagine a portfolio of your likenesses, from your 20s, 30s, 40s, and beyond, all available for metaverse modeling.  You could even have multiple versions of yourself  in the same photo shoot, appearing as parent and child. 

Taking a wider view, digital models dissociate the person from the entity that performs the modeling, allowing the two to vary independently over time.  And this sounds like a musician releasing albums, does it not?  An album can sell decades after it was recorded, so a musician's catalog is comprised of multiple, concurrent revenue streams. That thinking is what led to [Bowie Bonds](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bowie-bond.asp) – selling off the rights to future album earnings – an approach that has since been duplicated time and again by other musicians.

All of which takes us to our next segment: