---
title: A digital band, but not necessarily electronic music
---
You may [remember Kingship from a previous newsletter](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/metaverse-dive-bars-edible-adverts-and-a-little-ai#edible-adverts).  This is the Universal Music Group band whose "members" are based on Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) NFT characters.  They're back in the news this week because [Universal has engaged James Faunterloy and Hit-Boy, producers who have worked with the likes of Nas, Beyonce, and Rihanna,](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-09-12/bored-ape-band-created-by-universal-music-umg-gets-to-creating-tunes) to write the group's music.

Some readers may find this scandalous – "OMG they're writing music for ape JPEGs" – but haven't we seen something like this before?  Is this really such a large departure from pop sensations that have received a lot of … _ahem_ … corporate support?

Frankly, we think Kingship is a brilliant idea for Universal Music. To explain why, let's don our Risk Management Goggles:

There are many ways to view the term "risk."  We prefer to see it as _a question mark on your balance sheet:_ you're doing something today that may lead you to lose money later.  It's a question mark because you don't know when this will happen, nor how much money that will be, if it even happens at all.

When a label backs a band, or when a film studio backs an actor, they're investing in high-profile people with real lives and real personalities.  It's entirely possible that there will be some messy story in the press.  The scandalous love affair.  The shocking drug habit.  The old, racist tweet rant that somehow slipped through the nonexistent due-diligence exercise.

Every time one of those celebrities gets in trouble, it represents a potential cash leak for their investors.  Maybe they'll follow a sin/redemption arc and come back even more bankable.  Or maybe their careers will crater, and the remaining albums on that contract are doomed to never be released.  We imagine that record labels would love to close off those sources of risk.

So, back to Kingship.  Those BAYC characters? They only have the life and personality that they are given.  They only "exist" when and where the company wants them to.  They can't get into trouble.  And because this arrangement lets Universal decompose the notion of a "music group" into its constituent parts of "personality," "songwriting," and "performance" – it can leave each facet to an expert in that domain.  These BAYC band members are the perfect, low-risk celebrities – wrapped up tight like a movie script.

This arrangement is also good for Kingship's fans.  This band will be so much more than a music group; it will be an interactive story. You'll watch them perform, you'll hear their backstories (because, let's face it, they'll just _have_ to do some late-night TV "interviews"), you may even interact with them in a metaverse event.  You'll witness their "lives" play out in real-time, in the semi-real world… but the whole thing, just like a movie, is scripted.  Kingship fans will effectively get to play as extras in this story.  And if you [think of a metaverse experience as interactive, immersive escapism](https://www.blockandmortar.xyz/newsletter/digital-escapism-case-law-pioneers-and-cant-be-evil-nft-licenses#metaverse-properties-as-digital-escapism), Kingship can take that idea to another level.

Maybe they'll loop in Jimmy Fallon?  He caught a lot of flak for showing off his BAYC NFT a few months back.  Universal should give him first crack at interviewing Kingship because, hey, he's already made it clear that his show is BAYC-friendly.

(Dear Jimmy: when this happens, please don't forget that we said it first.)