---
title: And then there's “The Merge”
---
Blockchains are, deep down, tools for trust.  They allow strangers to conduct business without having to know each other.  People sometimes frame this as Blockchains Eliminate Middlemen (such as credit card payment processors, stock exchanges, and banks).  This is attractive because [middlemen have developed a bit of a sour reputation](https://www.oreilly.com/radar/building-a-better-middleman/).

Blockchains still sit between the parties that want to interact, though, so it's more appropriate to say that Blockchains Are Middlemen, expressed as code. Instead of a single bank validating a transaction, a bunch of strangers all run the same code to validate it before it gets written to the permanent record.  This transparency and public scrutiny provide the trust that would otherwise have come from a centralized third party.

This transparency also comes at a cost.  The old-school blockchains use a validation scheme called Proof of Work (PoW) which requires that the validators – "miners" – run some computationally-intense code.  All of that computation consumes large amounts of electricity, which usually means burning fossil fuels, which harms the environment. If you've ever heard someone say that "NFTs are destroying the rainforests," that's what they mean.

As of last week, Ethereum underwent a significant change – known as "The Merge" – in which it ditched PoW for a validation scheme called Proof of Stake (PoS).  This system uses less than one percent of the electricity of PoW, which largely addresses Ethereum's impact on the environment.

(Ethereum is not the first network to use PoS, but certainly the largest and most well-known to do so.) 

So what does that mean for people who use Ethereum? 

**If you're using Ethereum to buy NFTs,** you'll still pay the "gas" transaction fees.  Those aren't going away.

**If your company has been thinking about issuing cryptocurrency tokens or NFTs,** you're in luck: The Merge has eliminated most concerns about the environmental impact (not to mention, the reputation risk) of using Ethereum-based blockchains.

**And if you're wondering about the spread of blockchain technologies,** The Merge is definitely a step in the right direction.  Ethereum and other eco-friendlier blockchains should reduce barriers to adoption.